Bills of Exchange (Amendment) 1
L. D.- O. 10/2024
AN ACT TO AMEND THE BILLS OF EXCHANGE ORDINANCE
(CHAPTER 82)
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -
1. This Act may be cited as the Bills of Exchange Short title
(Amendment) Act, No. of 2024.
5 2. The Bills of Exchange Ordinance (Chapter 82) General
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby amendment
amended by the substitution for the word “Ceylon”, wherever to
Chapter 82
that word occurs in the principal enactment, of the words
“Sri Lanka”.
10 3. Section 2 of the principal enactment is hereby amended Amendment
as follows: - of section 2
of the
principal
(1) by the substitution for the definition of the
enactment
expression “banker”, of the following definition: -
““banker” means a licensed commercial bank or a
15 licensed specialised bank or a branch of a
foreign bank incorporated outside Sri Lanka,
which carries on the business of banking
within the meaning of the Banking Act, No.30
of 1988;”; and
20 (2) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression “delivery”, of the following new
definitions:-
““electronic means” shall mean any method by
which information is generated, sent, received
25 or stored by electronic, magnetic, optical, or
any other similar capacity regardless of the
medium;
2 Bills of Exchange (Amendment)
“facsimile transmission” means transmitting a
written, printed, or pictorial document over
the telephone system by scanning it
photoelectrically and reproducing the image
5 thereof after transmission;”.
4. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amended Amendment
of section 9
in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitution for the
of the
words “shall be at the rate of nine per centum per annum:”, principal
of the words “shall be the legal rate applicable for the time enactment
10 being:”.
5. Section 14 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
of section 14
amended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and
of the
the substitution therefor, of the following subsection: - principal
enactment
“(1) The bill is due and payable in all cases on the
15 last day of the time of payment as fixed by
the bill, or if that is a non-business day, on
the succeeding business day.”.
6. Section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby Repeal of
repealed. section 15 of
the principal
enactment
20 7. Section 35 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution of section 35
of the
for all the words from “if a bill be indorsed-” to the end of
principal
that subsection, of the following words: - enactment
“if a bill be indorsed “Pay D only”, “Pay D for the
25 account of X” or “Pay D or order for collection”.”.
