Clause 14 : This Clause replaces section 81 of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of the new section is to provide statutory recognition of the crossing “Account
Payee” with or without the word “only”.
Clause 15 : This Clause amends section 82 of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of that section as amended is to make provisions to enhance protection for paying
bankers.
Clause 16 : This Clause inserts new sections 82A to 82F in the principal enactment and
the legal effect of the new sections are to make provisions for penalties and other
consequential matters in respect of dishonour of certain cheques.
Clause 17 : This Clause amends section 83 of the principal enactment repealing certain
obsolete provisions.
Bills of Exchange (Amendment) 1
L. D.- O. 10/2024
AN ACT TO AMEND THE BILLS OF EXCHANGE ORDINANCE
(CHAPTER 82)
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -
1. This Act may be cited as the Bills of Exchange Short title
(Amendment) Act, No. of 2024.
5 2. The Bills of Exchange Ordinance (Chapter 82) General
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby amendment
amended by the substitution for the word “Ceylon”, wherever to
Chapter 82
that word occurs in the principal enactment, of the words
“Sri Lanka”.
10 3. Section 2 of the principal enactment is hereby amended Amendment
as follows: - of section 2
of the
principal
(1) by the substitution for the definition of the
enactment
expression “banker”, of the following definition: -
““banker” means a licensed commercial bank or a
15 licensed specialised bank or a branch of a
foreign bank incorporated outside Sri Lanka,
which carries on the business of banking
within the meaning of the Banking Act, No.30
of 1988;”; and
20 (2) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression “delivery”, of the following new
definitions:-
““electronic means” shall mean any method by
which information is generated, sent, received
25 or stored by electronic, magnetic, optical, or
any other similar capacity regardless of the
medium;
