Bills of Exchange (Amendment) 9
(c) the drawer of the cheque fails to make
the payment in response to such
demand to the payee or holder in due
course of the cheque, within ninety
5 days of the date of the demand.
(3) Where a drawee bank has dishonoured a
cheque by writing the words “refer to drawer”,
“account closed” or “payment countermanded
by drawer” on the cheque or such words are
10 stated in a cheque return notification issued by
a collecting bank, it shall be presumed that the
cheque was dishonoured due to insufficiency
of funds in the account of the drawer.
Institution of 82B. The payee or holder in due course of a
15 legal action. cheque which has been returned unpaid due to
insufficiency of funds in the account of the
drawer may institute legal action as the
claimant within thirty days of the expiration of
the period specified in paragraph (c) of
20 subsection (2) of section 82A.
Jurisdiction. 82C. The jurisdiction to hear and determine
an offence under this Ordinance shall be vested
with the Magistrate’s Court within whose local
jurisdiction -
25 (a) where the cheque is deposited for
collection through the account of the
payee or holder in due course of the
cheque, the branch of the bank in
which such payee or holder in due
30 course maintains the account, is
situated; or
10 Bills of Exchange (Amendment)
(b) where the cheque is presented for
payment by the payee or holder in
due course of the cheque to the
branch of the drawee bank, the
5 branch of the drawee bank in which
the drawer maintains the account, is
situated.
Conclusive 82D. The following shall be treated as
evidence
conclusive evidence of a cheque dishonoured
of a
10 dishonoured due to the insufficiency of funds in the account
cheque. of the drawer: -
(a) the cheque return notification issued
by the collecting bank;
(b) the deposit slip acknowledged by
15 the collecting bank; or
(c) the cheque returned by the drawee
bank.
Presumption 82E. It shall be presumed unless the contrary
in favour of
is proved, that the payee or holder in due course
the payee or
20 of the cheque received the cheque for the
holder in due
course of the discharge, in whole or in part, of any debt or
cheque.
other liability of the drawer.
Offences by 82F. Where a body of persons is convicted
a body of
for an offence under this Ordinance, then –
persons.
25 (a) if that body of persons is a body
corporate, every director, manager,
or secretary of that body corporate at
the time of the commission of such
offence;
