2 Bills of Exchange (Amendment)
“facsimile transmission” means transmitting a
written, printed, or pictorial document over
the telephone system by scanning it
photoelectrically and reproducing the image
5 thereof after transmission;”.
4. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amended Amendment
of section 9
in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitution for the
of the
words “shall be at the rate of nine per centum per annum:”, principal
of the words “shall be the legal rate applicable for the time enactment
10 being:”.
5. Section 14 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
of section 14
amended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and
of the
the substitution therefor, of the following subsection: - principal
enactment
“(1) The bill is due and payable in all cases on the
15 last day of the time of payment as fixed by
the bill, or if that is a non-business day, on
the succeeding business day.”.
6. Section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby Repeal of
repealed. section 15 of
the principal
enactment
20 7. Section 35 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution of section 35
of the
for all the words from “if a bill be indorsed-” to the end of
principal
that subsection, of the following words: - enactment
“if a bill be indorsed “Pay D only”, “Pay D for the
25 account of X” or “Pay D or order for collection”.”.
Bills of Exchange (Amendment) 3
8. Section 49 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
amended by the repeal of subsection (5) of that section and of section 49
of the
the substitution therefor, of the following subsection: -
principal
enactment
“(5) The notice may be given in writing or by
5 personal communication, or by facsimile
transmission or other electronic means which
sufficiently identify the bill, and intimate that
the bill has been dishonoured by non-
acceptance or non-payment.”.
10 9. Section 64 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
amended in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution of section 64
of the
for the words “any alteration of the date,”, of the words “any
principal
alteration of the name of the payee, the date,”. enactment
10. Section 74 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
15 amended by the addition immediately after subsection (3) of section 74
of the
of that section, of the following new subsections: -
principal
enactment
“(4) (a) A banker may, instead of presenting the
cheque itself for payment, present a cheque
by facsimile transmission or other
20 electronic means for payment to the banker
on whom it is drawn, by transmitting an
image thereof along with the stipulated
electronic payment information of the
cheque.
25 (b) For the purposes of this subsection –
(i) the image of a cheque shall comprise
the front view and the back view of
the cheque; and
(ii) the electronic payment information
30 of a cheque shall comprise –
