Bills of Exchange (Amendment) 5
(7) For the purpose of this section, where the image of
a cheque, or one or more of its electronic payment
information presented is inaccurate, such
presentation shall be a nullity.”.
5 11. Section 76 of the principal enactment is hereby Replacement
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor:- of section 76
of the
principal
“General and 76. (1) Where a cheque bears across its face enactment
special an addition of two parallel transverse lines,
crossings
either with or without the words “not
defined.
10 negotiable”, that addition constitutes a
crossing, and the cheque is crossed generally.
(2) Where a cheque bears across its face an
addition of the name of a banker, either with or
without the words “not negotiable”, that
15 addition constitutes a crossing, and the cheque
is crossed specially and to that banker.”.
12. Section 77 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
amended as follows: - of section 77
of the
principal
(1) by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section and enactment
20 the substitution therefor, of the following
subsection: -
“(4) Where a cheque is crossed generally or
specially, the holder may add the words, “not
negotiable”.”; and
25 (2) in subsection (6) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “to himself.”, of the words “to himself
and such crossing for the purpose of collection may
be placed either on the face or the rear of the
cheque.”.
6 Bills of Exchange (Amendment)
13. Section 80 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
amended as follows:- of section 80
of the
principal
(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection enactment
(1) of that section; and
5 (2) by the addition immediately after the renumbered
subsection (1) of that section, of the following new
subsection: -
“(2) The banker paying the cheque under
subsection (1), shall not incur any liability by
10 reason only of the absence of, or irregularity in,
indorsement and the payment discharges the
cheque.”.
14. Section 81 of the principal enactment is hereby Replacement
of section 81
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -
of the
principal
enactment
15 “Effect of 81. (1) Where a person takes a crossed
crossing a
cheque which bears on it the words “not
cheque with
words. negotiable”, he shall not have and shall not be
capable of giving a better title to the cheque
than that which the person from whom he took
20 it had.
(2) Where a cheque is crossed or uncrossed
and bears across its face the words “Account
Payee” or “A/C Payee” either with or without
the word “Only”, the cheque shall not be
25 transferable, and shall only be valid as between
the parties thereto.”.
Bills of Exchange (Amendment) 7
15. Section 82 of the principal enactment is hereby
Amendment
amended in subsection (1) of that section as follows: - of section 82
of the
principal
(1) by the re-lettering of that subsection as paragraph
enactment
(a) of that subsection; and
5 (2) by the addition immediately after the re-lettered
paragraph (a) of that subsection, of the following
new paragraph: -
“(b) A banker shall not to be treated for the
purpose of paragraph (a) as having been
10 negligent by reason only of his failure to concern
himself with the absence of, or irregularity in,
indorsement of a cheque.”.
16. The following new sections are hereby inserted Insertion of
immediately after section 82 of the principal enactment, and new sections
82A, 82B,
15 shall have effect as sections 82A, 82B, 82C, 82D, 82E and 82F
82C, 82D, 82E
of that enactment: - and 82F in
the principal
enactment
“Penalties in 82A. (1) Subject to the provisions of
respect of subsection (2), where any cheque drawn by a
dishonour of
customer on an account maintained by him
certain
20 cheques. with a bank for payment of any amount of
money to another person from that account for
the discharge, in whole or in part, of any debt
or other liability is returned by the bank unpaid
owing to –
25 (a) the amount of money standing to the
credit of that account being
insufficient to honour the cheque;
(b) the amount of the cheque exceeding
the amount arranged to be paid from
30 that account by an agreement made
with the bank;
8 Bills of Exchange (Amendment)
(c) the drawer having issued a cheque
from a closed account; or
(d) the drawer having countermanded
a cheque issued by him without any
5 legitimate reason in terms of
subsection (3),
such person shall be deemed to have committed
an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable
to a fine equivalent to the amount of the
10 cheque, or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding two years,
or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall
apply only if –
15 (a) the cheque has been presented to the
drawee bank within a period of six
months from the date on which it is
drawn or within the period of its
validity, whichever is earlier;
20 (b) the payee or holder in due course of
the cheque makes a demand for
payment of the value of the returned
cheque, in writing to the drawer of
the cheque within ninety days of the
25 receipt of information by him from
the collecting bank or drawee bank,
regarding the return of the cheque as
unpaid; and
Bills of Exchange (Amendment) 9
(c) the drawer of the cheque fails to make
the payment in response to such
demand to the payee or holder in due
course of the cheque, within ninety
5 days of the date of the demand.
(3) Where a drawee bank has dishonoured a
cheque by writing the words “refer to drawer”,
“account closed” or “payment countermanded
by drawer” on the cheque or such words are
10 stated in a cheque return notification issued by
a collecting bank, it shall be presumed that the
cheque was dishonoured due to insufficiency
of funds in the account of the drawer.
Institution of 82B. The payee or holder in due course of a
15 legal action. cheque which has been returned unpaid due to
insufficiency of funds in the account of the
drawer may institute legal action as the
claimant within thirty days of the expiration of
the period specified in paragraph (c) of
20 subsection (2) of section 82A.
Jurisdiction. 82C. The jurisdiction to hear and determine
an offence under this Ordinance shall be vested
with the Magistrate’s Court within whose local
jurisdiction -
25 (a) where the cheque is deposited for
collection through the account of the
payee or holder in due course of the
cheque, the branch of the bank in
which such payee or holder in due
30 course maintains the account, is
situated; or
