10 Bills of Exchange (Amendment)
(b) where the cheque is presented for
payment by the payee or holder in
due course of the cheque to the
branch of the drawee bank, the
5 branch of the drawee bank in which
the drawer maintains the account, is
situated.
Conclusive 82D. The following shall be treated as
evidence
conclusive evidence of a cheque dishonoured
of a
10 dishonoured due to the insufficiency of funds in the account
cheque. of the drawer: -
(a) the cheque return notification issued
by the collecting bank;
(b) the deposit slip acknowledged by
15 the collecting bank; or
(c) the cheque returned by the drawee
bank.
Presumption 82E. It shall be presumed unless the contrary
in favour of
is proved, that the payee or holder in due course
the payee or
20 of the cheque received the cheque for the
holder in due
course of the discharge, in whole or in part, of any debt or
cheque.
other liability of the drawer.
Offences by 82F. Where a body of persons is convicted
a body of
for an offence under this Ordinance, then –
persons.
25 (a) if that body of persons is a body
corporate, every director, manager,
or secretary of that body corporate at
the time of the commission of such
offence;
Bills of Exchange (Amendment) 11
(b) if that body of persons is a firm, every
partner of that firm at the time of the
commission of such offence; and
(c) if that body of persons is an
5 unincorporated body, every
individual who is a member of such
unincorporated body at the time of
the commission of such offence,
shall be deemed to have committed that offence:
10 Provided however, any director, manager or
secretary of such body corporate or any partner
of such firm or any individual of such
unincorporated body shall not be deemed to
have committed such offence if he proves to
15 the satisfaction of the court that such offence
was committed without his knowledge or that
he exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of such offence.”.
17. Section 83 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
20 amended by the repeal of all the words from “For the purpose of section 83
of the
of this section” to the end of that section.
principal
enactment
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala Sinhala text
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail. to prevail in
case of
inconsistency
12 Bills of Exchange (Amendment)
Department of Government Printing
