Section 7 International Arbitration Act 2020
(c) habitual residence; or
(d) mailing address.
(2) If delivery cannot be effected according to sub-section (1) after making a
reasonable inquiry, a written communication is deemed to have been received
if it is sent to –
(a) the addressee’s last known place of business;
(b) habitual residence;
(c) mailing address by registered letter; or
(d) any other means which provides a record of the attempt to deliver it.
(3) A written communication is deemed to have been received on the day it is so
delivered.
7 Waiver of right to object
A party who knows that any provision of this Act from which the parties may derogate
or any requirement under the arbitration agreement has not been complied with and
yet proceeds with the arbitration without stating his objection to such non-compliance
without undue delay or, if a time limit is provided therefore, within such period of
time, shall be deemed to have waived his right to object.
PART 3 – ARBITRATION AGREEMENT
8 Arbitration agreement
(1) An arbitration agreement is –
(a) an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes
which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a
defined legal relationship, whether contractual or not;
(b) may be in the form of an arbitration clause in a contract or in the form of
a separate agreement; and
(c) shall be in writing.
(2) An arbitration agreement is in writing if –
(a) its content is recorded in any form; and
(b) it is contained in an exchange of statements of claim and defence in
which the existence of an agreement is alleged by one party and not
denied by the other.
(3) The requirement that an arbitration agreement be in writing is met by an
electronic communication if the information contained therein is accessible so
as to be useable for subsequent reference.
Page 10 Act 21 of 2020 to
International Arbitration Act 2020 Section 9
(4) The reference in a contract to any document containing an arbitration clause
constitutes an arbitration agreement in writing, provided that the reference is
such as to make that clause part of the contract.
9 Arbitration agreement and substantive claim before court
(1) A court before which an action is brought in a matter which is the subject of an
arbitration agreement shall, if a party so requests not later than when submitting
his first statement on the substance of the dispute, refer the parties to arbitration
unless it finds that the agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of
being performed.
(2) Where an action referred to in sub-section (1) has been brought, arbitral
proceedings may nevertheless be commenced or continued, and an award may
be made, while the issue is pending before the court.
(3) If the court refuses to refer the parties to arbitration, any provision of the
arbitration agreement that an award is a condition precedent to the bringing of
legal proceedings in respect of any matter shall have no effect in relation to
those proceedings.
(4) If the court refers the parties to arbitration under sub-section (1), it shall make
an order staying the legal proceedings in that action.
10 Death, bankruptcy or winding up of party to arbitration agreement
(1) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, an arbitration agreement shall not be
discharged by the death, bankruptcy or winding up of a party, and may be
enforced by or against the representatives of that party.
(2) Sub-section (1) does not affect the operation of any law under which the death
of a person extinguishes a cause of action.
11 Arbitration agreement and interim measures by court
It is not incompatible with an arbitration agreement for a party to request, before or
during arbitral proceedings, from a court an interim measure of protection and for a
court to grant such measure.
.
to Act 21 of 2020 Page 11
Section 12 International Arbitration Act 2020
PART 4 – COMPOSITION OF ARBITRAL TRIBUNAL
12 Number of arbitrators
The parties are free to determine the number of arbitrators and failing such
determination, the number of arbitrators shall be three.
13 Appointment of arbitrators
(1) No person shall be precluded by reason of his nationality from acting as an
arbitrator, unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
(2) The parties are free to agree on rules of procedure in appointing the arbitrator
or arbitrators, subject to the provisions of sub-sections (4) and (5).
(3) When failing to agree under sub-section (2) –
(a) in an arbitration with three arbitrators, each party shall appoint one
arbitrator, and the two arbitrators thus appointed shall appoint the third
arbitrator;
(b) if a party fails to appoint the arbitrator under sub-paragraph (a) within 30
days of receipt of a request to do so from the other party, or if the two
arbitrators fail to agree on the third arbitrator within 30 days of their
appointment, the appointment shall be made, upon request of a party, by
the court or other authority; and
(c) in an arbitration with a sole arbitrator, if the parties are unable to agree
on the arbitrator, he shall be appointed, upon request of a party, by the
court or other authority.
(4) Where, under an appointment rules of procedure agreed upon by the parties –
(a) a party fails to act as required under such procedure; or
(b) the parties, or two arbitrators, are unable to reach an agreement expected
of them under such procedure; or
(c) a third party, including an institution, fails to perform any function
entrusted to it under such procedure,
any party may request the court or other authority to take the necessary
measure, unless the agreement on the appointment procedure provides other
means for securing the appointment.
(5) The court or other authority, in appointing an arbitrator, shall have due regard
to any qualifications required of the arbitrator by the agreement of the parties
and to such considerations as are likely to secure the appointment of an
independent and impartial arbitrator and, in the case of a sole or third arbitrator,
shall take into account as well the advisability of appointing an arbitrator of a
nationality other than those of the parties.
Page 12 Act 21 of 2020 to
