Section 12 International Arbitration Act 2020
PART 4 – COMPOSITION OF ARBITRAL TRIBUNAL
12 Number of arbitrators
The parties are free to determine the number of arbitrators and failing such
determination, the number of arbitrators shall be three.
13 Appointment of arbitrators
(1) No person shall be precluded by reason of his nationality from acting as an
arbitrator, unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
(2) The parties are free to agree on rules of procedure in appointing the arbitrator
or arbitrators, subject to the provisions of sub-sections (4) and (5).
(3) When failing to agree under sub-section (2) –
(a) in an arbitration with three arbitrators, each party shall appoint one
arbitrator, and the two arbitrators thus appointed shall appoint the third
arbitrator;
(b) if a party fails to appoint the arbitrator under sub-paragraph (a) within 30
days of receipt of a request to do so from the other party, or if the two
arbitrators fail to agree on the third arbitrator within 30 days of their
appointment, the appointment shall be made, upon request of a party, by
the court or other authority; and
(c) in an arbitration with a sole arbitrator, if the parties are unable to agree
on the arbitrator, he shall be appointed, upon request of a party, by the
court or other authority.
(4) Where, under an appointment rules of procedure agreed upon by the parties –
(a) a party fails to act as required under such procedure; or
(b) the parties, or two arbitrators, are unable to reach an agreement expected
of them under such procedure; or
(c) a third party, including an institution, fails to perform any function
entrusted to it under such procedure,
any party may request the court or other authority to take the necessary
measure, unless the agreement on the appointment procedure provides other
means for securing the appointment.
(5) The court or other authority, in appointing an arbitrator, shall have due regard
to any qualifications required of the arbitrator by the agreement of the parties
and to such considerations as are likely to secure the appointment of an
independent and impartial arbitrator and, in the case of a sole or third arbitrator,
shall take into account as well the advisability of appointing an arbitrator of a
nationality other than those of the parties.
Page 12 Act 21 of 2020 to
International Arbitration Act 2020 Section 14
(6) A decision on a matter in sub-section (4) or (5) of this section to the court or
other authority specified in this section shall be subject to no appeal.
14 Grounds for challenge
(1) When a person is approached in connection with his possible appointment as
an arbitrator, he shall disclose any circumstances likely to give rise to justifiable
doubts as to his impartiality or independence.
(2) An arbitrator, from the time of his appointment and throughout the arbitral
proceedings, shall without delay disclose any such circumstances to the parties
unless they have already been informed of them by him.
(3) An arbitrator may be challenged only if circumstances exist that give rise to
justifiable doubts as to his impartiality or independence, or if he does not
possess qualifications agreed to by the parties.
(4) A party may challenge an arbitrator appointed by him, or in whose appointment
that party has participated, only for reasons of which he becomes aware after
the appointment has been made.
15 Challenge procedure
(1) The parties are free to agree on a procedure for challenging an arbitrator, subject
to sub-section (3).
(2) Failing an agreement under sub-section (1), a party who intends to challenge
an arbitrator shall, within 15 days after becoming aware of the constitution of
the arbitral tribunal or after becoming aware of any circumstance referred to in
section 14 (3) and (4), send a written statement of the reasons for the challenge
to the arbitral tribunal.
(3) Unless the challenged arbitrator withdraws from his office or the other party
agrees to the challenge, the arbitral tribunal shall decide on the challenge.
(4) If a challenge under any procedure agreed upon by the parties or under the
procedure of sub-sections (2) and (3) is not successful, the challenging party
may request, within 30 days after having received notice of the decision
rejecting the challenge, the court to decide on the challenge, which decision
shall be subject to no appeal, while such a request is pending, the arbitral
tribunal, including the challenged arbitrator, may continue the arbitral
proceedings and make an award.
16 Failure or impossibility to act
(1) If an arbitrator becomes unable to perform his functions or for other reasons
fails to act without undue delay, his mandate terminates if he withdraws from
his office or if the parties agree on the termination.
to Act 21 of 2020 Page 13
Section 17 International Arbitration Act 2020
(2) If the matter is not resolved under sub-section (1), any party may request the
court to decide on the termination of the mandate, which decision shall be
subject to no appeal.
(3) If, under this section or section 15 (3), an arbitrator withdraws from his office
or a party agrees to the termination of the mandate of an arbitrator, this does
not imply acceptance of the validity of any ground referred to in this section or
section 14.
17 Appointment of substitute arbitrator
Where the mandate of an arbitrator terminates under section 15 or 16 –
(a) because of his withdrawal from office for any other reason;
(b) because of the revocation of his mandate by agreement of the parties; or
(c) in any other case of termination of his mandate;
a substitute arbitrator shall be appointed according to the rules that were
applicable to the appointment of the arbitrator being replaced.
18 Immunity of arbitrator
(1) An arbitrator is not liable for anything done or omitted in the discharge or
purported discharge of his functions as arbitrator unless the act or omission is
shown to have been in bad faith.
(2) Sub-section (1) applies to an employee or agent of an arbitrator as it applies to
the arbitrator himself.
(3) This section does not affect any liability incurred by an arbitrator by reason of
his resigning.
PART 5 – JURISDICTION OF ARBITRAL TRIBUNAL
19 Competence of arbitral tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction
(1) The arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, including any objections
with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement.
(2) For the purpose of sub-section (1), an arbitration clause which forms part of a
contract shall be treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the
contract.
(3) A decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and void shall not
entail the invalidity of the arbitration clause.
(4) A plea that the arbitral tribunal does not have jurisdiction shall be raised not
later than the submission of the statement of defence.
Page 14 Act 21 of 2020 to
