International Arbitration Act 2020 Section 20
(5) A party is not precluded from raising a plea under sub-section (4) by the fact
that he has appointed, or participated in the appointment of, an arbitrator.
(6) A plea that the arbitral tribunal is exceeding the scope of its authority shall be
raised as soon as the matter alleged is raised during the arbitral proceedings.
(7) The arbitral tribunal may admit a later plea if it considers the delay justified.
(8) The arbitral tribunal may rule on a plea either as a preliminary question or in an
award on the merits.
(9) If the arbitral tribunal rules as a preliminary question that it has jurisdiction,
any party may request, within 30 days after having received notice of that
ruling, the court to decide the matter which decision shall be subject to no
appeal.
20 Powers relating to conduct of arbitral proceedings
Unless the parties agree otherwise, the parties shall be taken as having agreed that the
powers conferred upon the arbitral tribunal include the power to —
(a) order the provision of further particulars in a statement of claim or
statement of defence;
(b) order the giving of security for costs;
(c) fix and amend time limits within which various steps in the arbitral
proceedings must be completed;
(d) order the discovery and production of documents or materials within the
possession or power of a party;
(e) order the answering of interrogatories; and
(f) order any party to do all such other things during the arbitral proceedings
as may reasonably be needed to enable an award to be made properly and
efficiently.
PART 6 – INTERIM MEASURES AND PRELIMINARY
ORDERS
21 Power of arbitral tribunal to order interim measures
(1) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal may, at the request
of a party, grant interim measures.
(2) For the purposes of this Part, “interim measures”” means any temporary
measure.
(3) An interim measure is any temporary measure, whether in the form of an award
or in another form, by which, at any time prior to the issuance of the award by
which the dispute is finally decided, the arbitral tribunal orders a party to –
to Act 21 of 2020 Page 15
Section 22 International Arbitration Act 2020
(a) maintain or restore the status quo pending determination of the dispute;
(b) take action that would prevent, or refrain from taking action that is likely
to cause, current or imminent harm or prejudice to the arbitral process
itself;
(c) provide a means of preserving assets out of which a subsequent award
may be satisfied; or
(d) preserve evidence that may be relevant and material to the resolution of
the disputes.
22 Conditions for granting interim measures
(1) The party requesting an interim measure under section 21 (2) (a), (b) and (c)
shall satisfy the arbitral tribunal that –
(a) harm not adequately reparable by an award of damages is likely to result
if the measure is not ordered, and such harm substantially outweighs the
harm that is likely to result to the party against whom the measure is
directed if the measure is granted; and
(b) there is a reasonable possibility that the requesting party will succeed on
the merits of the claim.
(2) A determination under sub-section (1) (b) shall not affect the discretion of the
arbitral tribunal in making any subsequent determination.
(3) Where there is a request for an interim measure under section 21(2)(d), the
requirements in sub-section (1) (a) and (b) shall apply only to the extent the
arbitral tribunal considers appropriate.
23 Applications for preliminary orders and conditions for granting
preliminary orders
(1) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, a party may, without notice to any other
party, make a request for an interim measure together with an application for a
preliminary order directing a party not to frustrate the purpose of the interim
measure requested.
(2) The arbitral tribunal may grant a preliminary order provided it considers that
prior disclosure of the request for the interim measure to the party against whom
it is directed risks frustrating the purpose of the measure.
(3) The conditions defined under section 22 apply to any preliminary order,
provided that the harm to be assessed under section 22 (1) (a), is the harm likely
to result from the order being granted or not.
Page 16 Act 21 of 2020 to
International Arbitration Act 2020 Section 24
24 Specific regime for preliminary orders
(1) After the arbitral tribunal has made a determination in respect of an application
for a preliminary order, the arbitral tribunal shall immediately give notice to all
parties of –
(a) the request for the interim measure;
(b) the application for the preliminary order;
(c) the preliminary order, if any; and
(d) all other communications, including by indicating the content of any oral
communication, between any party and the arbitral tribunal in relation
thereto.
(2) At the same time, the arbitral tribunal shall give an opportunity to any party
against whom a preliminary order is directed to present its case at the earliest
practicable time.
(3) The arbitral tribunal shall decide promptly on any objection to the preliminary
order.
(4) A preliminary order shall expire after 20 days from the date on which it was
issued by the arbitral tribunal.
(5) The arbitral tribunal may issue an interim measure adopting or modifying the
preliminary order, after the party against whom the preliminary order is directed
has been given notice and an opportunity to present its case.
(6) A preliminary order shall be binding on the parties but shall not be subject to
enforcement by a court.
(7) A preliminary order does not constitute an award.
25 Modification, suspension and termination
The arbitral tribunal may modify, suspend or terminate an interim measure or a
preliminary order it has granted, upon application of any party or, in exceptional
circumstances and upon prior notice to the parties, on the arbitral tribunal’s own
initiative.
26 Provision of security
(1) The arbitral tribunal may require the party requesting an interim measure to
provide appropriate security in connection with the measure.
(2) The arbitral tribunal shall require the party applying for a preliminary order to
provide security in connection with the order unless the arbitral tribunal
considers it inappropriate or unnecessary to do so.
to Act 21 of 2020 Page 17
Section 27 International Arbitration Act 2020
27 Disclosure
(1) The arbitral tribunal may require any party promptly to disclose any material
change in the circumstances on the basis of which the measure was requested
or granted.
(2) The party applying for a preliminary order shall disclose to the arbitral tribunal
all circumstances that are likely to be relevant to the arbitral tribunal’s
determination whether to grant or maintain the order, and such obligation shall
continue until the party against whom the order has been requested has had an
opportunity to present its case.
(3) Sub-section (1) shall apply after a party has met the requirements under sub-
section (2).
28 Costs and damages
(1) The party requesting an interim measure or applying for a preliminary order
shall be liable for any costs and damages caused by the measure or the order to
any party if the arbitral tribunal later determines that, in the circumstances, the
measure or the order should not have been granted.
(2) The arbitral tribunal may award such costs and damages at any point during the
proceedings.
29 Recognition and enforcement of an interim measure
(1) An interim measure issued by an arbitral tribunal, irrespective of the country in
which it was issued, shall be recognised as binding and, unless otherwise
provided by the arbitral tribunal, enforced upon application to the court, subject
to section 30.
(2) The party who is seeking or has obtained recognition or enforcement of an
interim measure shall promptly inform the court of any termination, suspension
or modification of that interim measure.
(3) The court where recognition or enforcement is sought may, if it considers it
proper, order the requesting party to provide appropriate security if the arbitral
tribunal has not already made a determination with respect to security or where
such a decision is necessary to protect the rights of third parties.
30 Grounds for refusing recognition or enforcement of an interim measure
(1) Recognition or enforcement of an interim measure may be refused only –
(a) at the request of the party against whom it is invoked if the court is
satisfied that –
(i) such refusal is warranted on the grounds set forth in
section 60(1)(a)(i) - (iv); or
Page 18 Act 21 of 2020 to
International Arbitration Act 2020 Section 31
(ii) the arbitral tribunal’s decision with respect to the provision of
security in connection with the interim measure issued by the
arbitral tribunal has not been complied with; or
(iii) the interim measure has been terminated or suspended by the
arbitral tribunal or, where so empowered, by the court of the
country in which the arbitration takes place or under the law of
which that interim measure was granted; or
(b) if the court finds that —
(i) the interim measure is incompatible with the powers conferred
upon the court unless the court decides to reformulate the interim
measure to the extent necessary to adapt it to its own powers and
procedures for the purposes of enforcing that interim measure and
without modifying its substance; or
(ii) any of the grounds set forth in section 60 (1) (b) (i) or (ii), apply
to the recognition and enforcement of the interim measure.
(2) Any determination made by the court on any ground in sub-section (1) shall be
effective only for the purposes of the application to recognise and enforce the
interim measure.
(3) The court shall not undertake a review of the substance of the interim measure
when making a determination under sub-section (2).
31 Court ordered interim measures
The court shall apply its own rules when granting an interim measure, in relation to
arbitration proceedings regardless of whether the place of arbitration is Tonga.
PART 7 – CONDUCT OF ARBITRAL PROCEEDINGS
32 Consolidation of proceedings and concurrent hearings
(1) The parties are free to agree —
(a) that the arbitral proceedings shall be consolidated with other arbitral
proceedings; or
(b) that concurrent hearings shall be held on such terms as may be agreed.
(2) Unless the parties agree to confer such power on the tribunal, the tribunal has
no power to order consolidation of proceedings or concurrent hearings.
33 Equal treatment of parties
The parties shall be treated equally and shall be given an opportunity to present his
case.
to Act 21 of 2020 Page 19
