international arbitration act 2020 section 62 part 11 – miscellaneous 62 regulations the minister may with the consent of cabinet make regulations for the proper and efficient administration of this act. passed by the legislative assembly on 10th day of december 2020. to act 21 of 2020 page 31 schedule international arbitration act 2020 schedule convention on the recognition and enforcement of foreign arbitral awards (1958) article i 1. this convention shall apply to the recognition and enforcement of arbitral awards made in the territory of a state other than the state where the recognition and enforcement of such awards are sought, and arising out of differences between persons, whether physical or legal. it shall also apply to arbitral awards not considered as domestic awards in the state where their recognition and enforcement are sought. 2. the term "arbitral awards" shall include not only awards made by arbitrators appointed for each case but also those made by permanent arbitral bodies to which the parties have submitted. 3. when signing, ratifying or acceding to this convention, or notifying extension under article x hereof, any state may on the basis of reciprocity declare that it will apply the convention to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another contracting state. it may also declare that it will apply the convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the national law of the state making such declaration. article ii 1. each contracting state shall recognize an agreement in writing under which the parties undertake to submit to arbitration all or any differences which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defined legal relationship, whether contractual or not, concerning a subject matter capable of settlement by arbitration. 2. the term "agreement in writing" shall include an arbitral clause in a contract or an arbitration agreement, signed by the parties or contained in an exchange of letters or telegrams. 3. the court of a contracting state, when seized of an action in a matter in respect of which the parties have made an agreement within the meaning of this article, shall, at the request of one of the parties, refer the parties to arbitration, unless it finds that the said agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed. article iii each contracting state shall recognize arbitral awards as binding and enforce them in accordance with the rules of procedure of the territory where the award is relied upon, under the conditions laid down in the following articles. there shall not be imposed substantially page 32 act 21 of 2020 to