International Arbitration Act 2020 Section 62
PART 11 – MISCELLANEOUS
62 Regulations
The Minister may with the consent of Cabinet make regulations for the proper and
efficient administration of this Act.
Passed by the Legislative Assembly on 10th day of December 2020.
to Act 21 of 2020 Page 31
SCHEDULE International Arbitration Act 2020
SCHEDULE
Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards
(1958)
Article I
1. This Convention shall apply to the recognition and enforcement of arbitral awards
made in the territory of a State other than the State where the recognition and
enforcement of such awards are sought, and arising out of differences between
persons, whether physical or legal. It shall also apply to arbitral awards not
considered as domestic awards in the State where their recognition and enforcement
are sought.
2. The term "arbitral awards" shall include not only awards made by arbitrators
appointed for each case but also those made by permanent arbitral bodies to which
the parties have submitted.
3. When signing, ratifying or acceding to this Convention, or notifying extension under
article X hereof, any State may on the basis of reciprocity declare that it will apply
the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the
territory of another Contracting State. It may also declare that it will apply the
Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether
contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the national law of the
State making such declaration.
Article II
1. Each Contracting State shall recognize an agreement in writing under which the
parties undertake to submit to arbitration all or any differences which have arisen or
which may arise between them in respect of a defined legal relationship, whether
contractual or not, concerning a subject matter capable of settlement by arbitration.
2. The term "agreement in writing" shall include an arbitral clause in a contract or an
arbitration agreement, signed by the parties or contained in an exchange of letters or
telegrams.
3. The court of a Contracting State, when seized of an action in a matter in respect of
which the parties have made an agreement within the meaning of this article, shall,
at the request of one of the parties, refer the parties to arbitration, unless it finds that
the said agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed.
Article III
Each Contracting State shall recognize arbitral awards as binding and enforce them in
accordance with the rules of procedure of the territory where the award is relied upon, under
the conditions laid down in the following articles. There shall not be imposed substantially
Page 32 Act 21 of 2020 to
