chapter 103 insolvents ordinances an ordinance to provide for the due collection, administration, and nos 7 of 1853, distribution of insolvent estates.
24 of 1884.
[2nd july.
1854.]
short title.
1. this ordinance may be cited as the 4.
the several district courts district courts insolvency ordinance. '
throughout sri lanka shall be courts for the to be auxiliary to each other administration of insolvent estates under for proof of this ordinance, and shall be auxiliary to debts and cessio 2.
it shall not be lawful for any person each other for proof of debts and for the taking bonorum to obtain from any court within sri lanka, examinations.
abolished.
examination of persons or witnesses in all or for any such court to grant to any matters under this ordinance, or for any or person, the benefit or relief of cession of either of such purposes : goods and property commonly called the cessio bonorum, as heretofore known to and provided that all such examinations shall allowed by the roman-dutch law in force be taken down in writing, and shall be within sri lanka: transmitted to the court in which the petition for sequestration is being provided that nothing herein contained prosecuted, and shall be annexed to and shall be deemed or taken to affect in any form part of the proceedings in the matter way the estate or condition of any person to to which the same shall relate, and that no whom before the commencement of this such examination shall be taken without the ordinance the said benefit or relief shall request in writing of the judge of the have been duly granted, which estate shall district court before whom the matter is be administered, and which condition shall being prosecuted.
be judged of, as if this ordinance had not been enacted.
5. all decisions and orders of the appeals to district courts made under the authority of court of appeal.
this ordinance shall be subject to an appeal judges may 3.
the judges of the supreme court to the court of appeal.
make rules.
may from time to time make such rules and orders as they may think fit for the better acts of insolvency in general carrying of this ordinance into effect, and generally for regulating the practice of the 7.*
if any person residing in sri lanka acts of district court and the forms of proceedings or having any property, real or personal, insolvency.
under this ordinance in all insolvency therein, shall depart therefrom, or being out matters not provided for in this ordinance.
: of sri lanka shall remain abroad, or shall depart from his dwelling house, or otherwise provided that such rules and orders shall absent himself, or begin to keep his house, not be inconsistent with or repugnant to the or suffer himself to be arrested or taken in provisions of this ordinance, and that no execution for any debt not due, or yield such rules or orders shall be of any force or himself to prison, or procure himself to be effect until they shall have been laid before arrested or taken in execution, or his goods, parliament and notified in the gazette in money, lands, or other property to be manner provided in article 136 of the attached, sequestered, or taken in execution, constitution.
or make or cause to be made, either in sri lanka * section 6 is omitted from this edition, as the procedure relating to appeals is now regulated by the civil procedure code.
v/27 cap.103] insolvents or elsewhere, any fraudulent grant, form a in the schedule signed by such conveyance, or mortgage of any of his lands person and attested by an attorney-at-law, or goods, or make or cause to be made any or some other witness, that he is unable to meet his engagements, every such person fraudulent gift, delivery, or transfer of any shall be deemed thereby to have committed of his goods or other property, every such an act of insolvency at the time of filing person doing, suffering, procuring, such declaration, provided a petition for executing, permitting, making, or causing to sequestration of his estate shall be filed by be made any of the acts, deeds, or matters or against such person within two months aforesaid, with intent to defeat or delay his from the filing of such declaration.
creditors, shall be deemed to have thereby committed an act of insolvency.
11.
if any person, after the filing of any compounding conveyance by 8.
if any person shall execute any petition for seque , stration . .
o .
f his esta ,.
t e, shall w pe it t
h
it , i on , ing a person of all conveyance or assignment by deed of all his pay money to the petitioning creditor, or creditor an act his property to property to a trustee or trustees for the give or deliver to such petitioning creditor of insolvency trustees not an any satisfaction or security for his debt or benefit of all the creditors of such person, act of any part thereof, whereby such petitioning insolvency, the execution of such deed shall not be unless petition deemed an act of insolvency, unless a creditor may receive more for every ten for petition for sequestration of the estate of rupees in respect of his debt than the other sequestration is filed within such person be filed within three months creditors, such payment, gift, delivery, three months.
from the execution thereof: satisfaction or security shall be an act of insolvency; and if adjudication that such provided such deed shall be executed by estate be sequestered shall have been made every such trustee within fifteen days after upon such petition, the court may either the execution thereof by such first- declare such adjudication to be valid, and mentioned person, and notice thereof be direct the same to be proceeded in, or may given within one month after the execution order it to be annulled, and a petition or thereof by such first-mentioned person in new petition for sequestration may be filed, the gazette and in some newspaper published in colombo; and such notice and such petition or new petition may be shall contain the date and execution of such supported either by proof of such last- deed and the name and place of abode of mentioned or any other act of insolvency.
every such trustee.
12.
if any plaintiff shall recover defendant not lying in prison 9.
if any person having been arrested or judgment in any action for the recovery of paying, for twenty-one committed to prison for debt or on any securing, or days, and attachment for non-payment of money any debt or money demand in any court in compounding escaping out of shall, upon such or any other arrest or sri lanka against any person residing for a judgment prison, acts of within the same, and shall be in a situation debt within insolvency.
commitment for debt or non-payment of thirty days to sue out execution upon such judgment, money, or upon any detention for debt, lie after notice an in prison for twenty-one days, or having and there be nothing due from such plaintiff act of been arrested or committed to prison for by way of set-off against such judgment, insolvency.
any other cause shall lie in prison for and the defendant shall not within thirty twenty-one days after any writ of execution days after notice in writing personally issued against him and not discharged, every served upon such defendant requiring such person shall thereby be deemed to have immediate payment of such judgment-debt, committed an act of insolvency; or if any pay, secure, or compound for the same to such person having been arrested, the satisfaction of such plaintiff, every such committed, or detained for debt shall escape defendant shall be deemed to.
have out of prison or custody, every such person committed an act of insolvency on the shall be deemed to have thereby committed thirty-first day after service of such notice: an act of insolvency from the time of such arrest, commitment, or detention.
provided that if such execution shall in the meantime be suspended or restrained by filing 10.
if any person residing in sri lanka declaration of shall file in the district court of the district any rule, order, or proceeding of any court insolvency an in which he shall have resided or carried on having jurisdiction in that behalf, no further act of business for six months next immediately proceeding shall be had on such notice, but insolvency.
preceding a declaration in writing in the it shall be lawful nevertheless for such v/28