cap.103] insolvents schedule, either by word of mouth or direct the fiscal, or other person therein interrogatories in writing, for the finding named for that purpose, to apprehend and out and discovery of the property of such arrest such person and bring him before the insolvent concealed, kept, or disposed of by court for examination.
such wife in her own person or by her own act, or by any other person, and she shall 45. where it shall be shown by affidavit service of to the satisfaction of the court that any summons incur such danger or penalty for not coming where person person to whom any such summons is before the court, or for refusing to make keeps out of and sign such declaration and to be directed as aforesaid is keeping out of the the way.
way and cannot be personally served examined, or to sign her examination, or for therewith, and that due pains have been not fully answering to the satisfaction of the taken to effect such personal service, it shall court, as is hereinafter provided.
be lawful for the court to order by endorsement upon the summons that the if insolvent 43.
if in any case it shall be proved to keep out of the the satisfaction of the court that any delivery of a copy of such summons to the way, or be wife or servant, or some adult inmate of the insolvent is keeping out of the way and about to quit house or family of the person at his usual or sri lanka, &c., cannot be personally served with a warrant.
summons, and that due pains have been last known place of abode or business, and explaining the purport thereof to such wife, taken to effect such personal service, or that servant, or inmate, shall be equivalent to there is probable cause for believing that he personal service; and in every such case the is about to quit sri lanka, or to remove or service of such summons in pursuance of conceal any of his goods or effects, unless he such order shall be and be deemed and be forthwith apprehended, it shall be lawful taken to be of the same force and effect to for such court, by warrant, to authorize and all intents and purposes as if the party to direct the fiscal, or any person it shall think whom such summons was directed had been fit, to apprehend and arrest such insolvent, personally served therewith.
and bring him before the court to be examined in like manner as if he appeared 46.
upon the appearance of any person power to upon a summons.
summoned or brought before the court examine persons upon any warrant as aforesaid, or if any summoned or court may 44.
after any person has been adjudged person be present at any sitting of the court, present at any summon insolvent it shall be lawful for the district person it shall be lawful for the court to examine or sitting.
court to summon before it any person suspected of to permit the examination by the creditors having known or suspected to have any of the of every such person upon oath, either by insolvent's estate of the insolvent in his possession, or property, &c. word of mouth or by interrogatories in who is supposed to be indebted to the writing, concerning the person, trade, insolvent, or any person the court may dealings, or estate of any insolvent, or believe capable of giving information concerning any act of insolvency by any concerning the person, trade, dealings, or insolvent committed, and to reduce into estate of the insolvent, or concerning any writing the answers of every such person; act of insolvency committed by him, or any and such answers so reduced into writing information material to the full disclosure of such person examined is hereby required to his dealings ; and the court may require such sign.
person to produce any books, papers, deeds, writings, or other documents in his custody 47.
if any such person examined as last court may or power which may appear to the court aforesaid shall, in and by his examination order payment of debts necessary to the verification of the signed as aforesaid, and also in and by a admitted to be deposition of such person, or to the full separate writing in the form n in the due to the disclosure of any of the matters which the • schedule, admit that he is indebted to the estate: and if they fail court is authorized to inquire into; and if insolvent in any sum of money upon the to attend, such person so summoned as aforesaid shall balance of accounts, it shall be lawful for warrant.
not come before the court at the time the court, if it think fit, to order (in the form appointed, having no lawful impediment 0 in the schedule, or to the like effect) that (made known to the court at the time of its such person shall forthwith, or at such time sitting, and allowed by it), it shall be lawful and in such manner as to the court may for the court by warrant to authorize and seem expedient, pay the amount so v/36 insolvents [cap.103 admitted, in full discharge thereof, to the upon him the sale or disposition as owner, assignees, together with the costs of and the court shall have power to order the same incident to the summons of such person, if to be sold or disposed of for the benefit of the court think fit to award costs, or the the creditors of the insolvent: court may, if it think fit, in the said form 0, provided that nothing herein contained assignments of order the assignees to pay the costs of the shall invalidate or affect any transfer or vessels under person summoned out of the estate of the the merchant assignment of any ship or vessel, or any such order to insolvent; and every such order shall have shipping act.
share thereof, made as a security for any have effect of the effect of a judgment in the said court, debt, either by way of mortgage or judgment and may be enforced accordingly: assignment, duly registered according to the provisions of the merchant shipping act.
provided always that no such order shall be made unless such party has been 50.
but if there shall be found among consigned informed by the judge of the effect of such the insolvent's property at the time of its goods, &c., to be given up to admission before the same is signed as seizure any wares, goods, or merchandise the owner.
aforesaid; consigned to him for the special purpose of being sold by him on commission, or provided also, that if part only of the sum intrusted in his hands for any specific purpose, and which evidently are the actually due be so admitted, or if the court property of the consignor or person so make an order for part only of the sum intrusting, notice thereof shall be admitted, the residue may be recoverable in transmitted to the owners as soon as the same manner in all respects as if no such possible, in order that they may take the admission or order had been made.
necessary measures to secure their property, and the same shall be carefully preserved, court may 48.
the district court may order that and shall be delivered over to the lawful order letters for 3 period of three months from the date addressed to owners.
insolvent to be 0f any such order all post letters directed or redirected or addressed to any insolvent at the place of 51.
if any person adjudged insolvent conveyances, delivered to which he shall be described in the petition under this ordinance shall (except upon the &c., by assignees, &c. „ ...
„,. .. . , for sequestration of his estate as insolvent, marriage of any of his children, or for some insolvent without shall be redirected, readdressed, sent, or valuable consideration) have conveyed, valuable delivered by the postmaster-general, or the assigned, or transferred to any of his consideration, officers acting under him, to the assignees children, or to any other person, any real or void.
named in such order; and upon notice by personal property whatsoever, or have transmission of a duplicate of any such delivered or made over to any such person order to the postmaster-general, or the any bills, bonds, notes, or other securities, officers acting under him, by the assignees or have transferred his debts to any other or other person named in such order, of the person or into any other person's name, making of such order, it shall be lawful for such first-mentioned person being at the the postmaster-general, or such officers as time of making any such conveyance, aforesaid, to readdress, redirect, send, or assignment, transfer, or delivery insolvent, the court shall have power to order any such deliver all such post letters to the assignees property to be sold and disposed of for the named in such order accordingly; and the benefit of the creditors under the court may, upon any application to be made insolvency; and every such sale shall be for that purpose, renew any such order for a valid against the insolvent and such children like or for any other less period as often as and persons, and against all persons may be necessary.
claiming under him.
power of the district court over certain descriptions of property • 52.
no seizure or detention of the goods seizure of of any insolvent for rent made after an act goods for rent goods in the 49.
if any insolvent, at the time he of insolvency, and whether before or after not to be possession, commits the act of insolvency, shall, by the available for the filing of the petition for sequestration of order, or .
more than one disposition of consent and permission of the true owner his estate, shall be available for more than year's rent the insolvent to thereof, have in his possession, order, or one year's rent accrued prior to the day of due; the be deemed his disposition any goods or effects whereof he the filing of such petition, but the landlord landlord to prove for the propety was reputed owner, or whereof he had taken or person to whom the rent shall be due residue.
v/37 cap.103] insolvents shall be allowed to come in as creditor for transactions with the insolvent, and the overplus of the rent due, and for which executions against his property up to the goods seized shall not be available.
the time of the filing of the petition for sequestration of his estate as where 53.
if any insolvent shall as trustee be insolvent, or within a limited time insolvent is a seized, possessed of, or entitled to, either previously thereto trustee, the alone or jointly, any real or personal estate, court may order or any interest secured upon or arising out conveyance or of the same, or shall have standing in his assignment to 56.
all payments really and bona fide payment by another name as trustee, either alone or jointly, any made by any insolvent, or by any person on insolvent, trustee.
funds or annuities, or any of the stock of his behalf, before the filing of a petition for any public company in sri lanka, it shall be sequestration of his estate as insolvent to lawful for the court, on the petition of the any creditor of such insolvent, and all person entitled in possession to the receipt payments really and bona fide made to any of the rents, issues, and profits, dividends, insolvent before the filing of such petition, interest, or produce thereof, on due notice and all conveyances by any insolvent bona conveyances by given to all other persons (if any) interested fide made and executed before the filing of him; therein, to order the assignees, and all such petition, and all contracts, dealings, contracts and persons whose act or consent thereto is and transactions by and with any insolvent dealings with necessary, to convey, assign, or transfer the him, really and bona fide made and entered into said estate, interest, funds, or annuities to before the filing of such petition, and all such person as the said court shall think fit, executions and attachments against the and upon the same trusts as the said estate, lands of any insolvent bona fide executed by executions • interest, funds, or annuities were subject to seizure, and all executions and attachments before the insolvency, or such of them as against the goods and effects of any shall be then subsisting and capable of insolvent bona fide executed and levied by taking effect, and also to receive and pay seizure and sale before the date of the filing over the rents, issues, and profits, dividends, of such petition, shall be deemed to be valid in what cases interest, or produce thereof as the said court notwithstanding any prior act of insolvency valid, if no shall direct.
notice of act of by such insolvent committed, provided the insolvency; person so dealing with or paying to or being title to 54.
no title to any real or personal paid by such insolvent, or at whose suit or property sold estate sold under any insolvency shall be on whose account such execution or not to be impeached by the insolvent, or any person attachment shall have issued, had not at the impeached unless claiming under him, in respect of any defect time of such payment, conveyance, contract, insolvency in the petition for sequestration or in any of dealing, or transaction, or at the time of disputed within the proceedings under the same, unless the such executing or levying such execution or a certain time.
insolvent shall, within the time allowed attachment, or at the time of making any by this ordinance, have commenced sale thereunder, notice of any prior act of proceedings to dispute, dismiss, or annul the insolvency by him committed: petition or adjudication thereunder, and duly prosecuted the same.
provided always that nothing herein but not to the court, 55.
after the adjudication of insolvency contained shall be deemed or taken to give extend to after in any case shall have been advertised in the validity to any payment, or to any delivery fraudulent adjudication, preferences, may order any gazette, it shall be lawful for the court to or transfer of any goods or effects made by &c. agent of the order any treasurer or other officer, or any any insolvent being a fraudulent preference insolvent to banker, attorney, registered attorney or of any creditor of such insolvent, or to any deliver over all other agent of the insolvent, to pay and conveyance or mortgage made or given moneys, &c. deliver over to the assignees, to the credit of by any insolvent by way of fraudulent the estate of such insolvent, all moneys or preference of any creditor of such insolvent, securities for moneys in his custody, or to any execution founded on a judgment possession, or power as such officer or on a power of attorney to confess judgment, agent, and which he is not by law entitled to or consent to a judgment given by any retain against the insolvent or his assignees, insolvent by way of fraudulent preference.
v/38 insolvents [cap.103 bona fide 57.
no purchase from any insolvent stamps purchases not bona fide and for valuable consideration to be 60.
no deed, conveyance, assignment, deeds and where the purchaser had notice at the time impeached by admission, or other assurance of or to or other notice of act of of such purchase of an act of insolvency by instruments relating solely to any lands, or to any insolvency, such insolvent committed, shall be relating to unless petition mortgage, charge, or other incumbrance insolvency not be filed within impeached by reason thereof, unless a upon, or any estate, right, or interest of and liable to stamp twelve months petition for sequestration of the estate of duty.
in any lands, or personal estate, being the after the act of such insolvent shall have been filed within insolvency.
estate of or belonging to any insolvent, or twelve months after such act of insolvency.
part or parcel thereof, and which after the execution of such deed, conveyance, assignment, or assurance respectively shall fraudulent 58.
every transaction, dealing, transfer, either be or remain the estate and property preferences delivery, alienation, mortgage, pledge, or according to of such insolvent or of the assignees payment by any insolvent to or with any the law of appointed or chosen under any insolvency, england to be creditor of such insolvent, or to or with any and no power of attorney, order, certificate deemed such in other person, which by the law of england like cases of conformity, affidavit, or other instrument within sri at the corresponding period would be and or writing whatsoever relating solely to the lanka.
be deemed to be a fraudulent preference of estate or effects of any insolvent, or to any one creditor before other creditors in any part thereof, or to any proceedings under proceeding in bankruptcy, or in any suit or any insolvency, and no affidavit, bond, or action, shall, in the like case arising within other proceeding under this ordinance sri lanka be and be deemed to be a relating solely to insolvency matters, shall fraudulent preference according to the true be liable to any stamp duty, save and except intent and meaning of this ordinance.
such stamp duty as is provided in part v of schedule a of the stamp ordinance.
certain powers 59.
every power of attorney to confess 61.
the provisions contained in the provisions of of attorney to judgment* in any personal action given by ordinance for the time being in force stamp confess any insolvent after the commencement of ordinance to judgment and relating to stamps shall (so far as the same extend to consents to this ordinance, and within two months of are applicable and consistent with the stamps under judgments, given within the filing of a petition for sequestration of provisions of this ordinance), in all cases this ordinance.
two months of his estate by or against such insolvent, and not hereby expressly provided for, be of full filing petition being for or in respect of (wholly or in part) force and effect with respect to the stamps to be null and an antecedent debt or money demand, and to be provided under and by virtue of this void.
every consent to a judgment given by ordinance, and shall be applied and put in any insolvent at any time after the execution for collecting and securing the commencement of this ordinance, and sums of money denoted thereby, and for within two months of the filing of any such preventing, detecting, and punishing all petition, in any action commenced by frauds, forgeries, and other offences relating collusion with the insolvent, and not thereto, as fully and effectually to all intents adversely or purporting to have been given and purposes as if such provisions had been in an action, but having been in fact given herein repeated and specially enacted with reference to the said last-mentioned stamps before the commencement of any action and sums of money respectively. against the insolvent, such insolvent being unable to meet his engagements at the time appointment by the court of of giving such power of attorney* or provisional assignees consent (as the case may be), shall be deemed and taken to be null and void, • 62.
it shall be lawful for the district as to whether the same shall have been given by court, on cause shown by any person appointment such insolvent in contemplation of the interested in the due administration of the by court of provisional sequestration of his estate as insolvent or insolvent estate at any time after the assignee.
not.
adjudication of insolvency, by order of •sections 31 and 32 of the civil procedure code relating to warrants and powers of attorney to confess judgment are repealed by law no. 20 of 1977.
v/39 cap.103] insolvents court to appoint one or more fit person or rejection or removal a new choice and persons to be assignee or assignees of any appointment of another assignee shall be insolvent estate provisionally arid until the made in like manner.
creditors of the said estate shall have made choice of assignees.
67.
if one or more of the partners of ai joint creditor firm be adjudged insolvent, any creditor to entitled to removal of 63.
provisional assignees may be prove under whom the insolvent is indebted jointly with provisional removed at the meeting of creditors for the ' separate estate assignee.
the other partners of the firm, or any of for the purpose choice of assignees if the said creditors shall them , shall be entitled to prove his debt for of of voting in the think fit, or may then be chosen as .
choice of the purpose only of voting in the choice of assignees.
assignees, but shall and may, until so assignees and of being heard against the removed, act in the collection, allowance of the insolvent's certificate, or of administration, and distribution of the said either of such purposes; but such creditors estate in all respects the same as assignees shall not receive any dividend out of the elected by the creditors are by this separate estate of the insolvent until all the ordinance authorized or required to do.
separate creditors shall have received the full amount of their respective debts.
provisional 64.
no such provisional assignees shall assignee not to proceed to make sale of any part of the said sell property estate without the authority for that purpose 68.
in no case shall it be competent for who without the creditors to elect as assignee the incompetent to authority of of the said court first had and obtained.
be appointed court.
insolvent himself, nor any person related to assignee.
the insolvent by consanguinity or affinity effect of 65.
every order of court appointing within the fourth degree, nor any minor, nor appointment of provisional assignees shall, so soon as made, any attorney-at-law, nor any person not provisional have the effect in law to vest in such resident within sri lanka, nor any person assignee.
provisional assignees for the uses and having an interest opposed to the general purposes of the sequestration, and until interest of the creditors in the insolvent their removal, all the present and future estate, nor any person declared to be estate of the insolvent, real and personal, as incapable of being elected by virtue of the fully and completely to all intents and provisions in the next succeeding section purposes as the said estate is by virtue of contained.
sections 70 and 71 of this ordinance vested in the assignees chosen by the creditors.
69.
if any person elected as assignee acts of shall be proved to the satisfaction of the assignee choice of assignees, and their rights district court to have, either directly or entitling the court to set and duties indirectly, given or promised to give to any election asid creditor of the insolvent any species of and declare assignees when 66.
at the first public sitting appointed offender and how by the court under any insolvency, or at any valuable consideration whatsoever, in order disqualified.
chosen.
to obtain the vote of such creditor at the adjournment thereof, assignees of the choice of assignees, or to have agreed to insolvent's estate and effects shall and may secure and make good to any creditor some be chosen and appointed; and all creditors certain sum or dividend in discharge or who have proved debts to the amount of diminution of his debt, upon condition or in one hundred rupees and upwards shall be order that such creditor should give his vote entitled to vote in such choice ; and also any to such assignee, or to have offered or person authorized by letter of attorney from agreed, in case any creditor of the insolvent any such creditor, upon proof of the should consent to vote for such assignee, to execution thereof, either by affidavit or by abstain from opening up or investigating oath before the court viva voce; and the some previous transactions between such choice and appointment shall be made by creditor and the insolvent which were, or the major part in value of the creditor| so were supposed to be, of questionable entitled to vote: validity, or to have contrived or been privy court may provided that the court shall have power to any plan or arrangement by which debts reject or to reject any person so chosen who shall or securities really belonging to some one or remove any appear to such court unfit to be an assignee, more persons have been divided amongst a person chosen as unfit or to remove any assignee; and upon such greater number of persons for the purpose v/40