cap.
103] insolvents if insolvent 143.
if the insolvent shall not (if he were shall obtain a judgment, shall be deducted does not within sri lanka at the date of the from the costs which such other party would dispute the adjudication) within twenty-one days after otherwise be entitled to receive from such insolvency, gazette to be the advertisement of the insolvency in the assignees or other person.
evidence of the gazette, or (if he were in any part of india, adjudication pakistan or bangladesh at the date of the 145.
the court may, in all matters court may and petition, as against adjudication) within three months after such before it, award such costs as to such court award costs, and how insolvent, and advertisement, or (if he were elsewhere at shall seem fit and just; and in all cases in recovered.
in suits or the date of adjudication) within twelve which costs shall be so awarded against any debts, &c., by assignees.
months after such advertisement, have person, it shall and may be lawful for such commenced an action or other proceeding court to cause such costs to be recovered to dispute or annul the petition for from such person in the same manner as sequestration of his estate as insolvent, and costs awarded by such court in civil suits shall not have prosecuted the same with due may be recovered.
diligence and effect, the gazette containing such advertisement shall be conclusive 146.
every person summoned to attend witnesses and evidence in all cases as against such before the court as a person known or persons known or suspected to insolvent, and in all actions brought by the suspected to have any of the estate of the have assignees for any debt or demand for which insolvent in his possession, or who is insolvent's such insolvent might have sustained any supposed to be indebted to the insolvent, property, &c,.
when entitled action had he not been adjudged insolvent, shall have such costs and charges as the to costs.
that such person so adjudged insolvent court in its discretion shall think fit, and became an insolvent before the date and every witness summoned to attend before filing of the petition for sequestration, and the court shall have his necessary expenses that such petition was filed on the day on tendered to him in like manner as is now by which the same is stated in the gazette to law required upon service of subpoena to a bear date.
witness in a civil action.
in other cases 144.
in any action, (other than an action offences against the law relating to no proof of brought by the assignees for any debt or insolvency and other matters in this petitioning creditor's debt demand for which the insolvent might have ordinance or act of sustained an action had he not been insolvency, adjudged insolvent), and whether at the suit 147.
if any person adjudged insolvent insolvent not unless notice to of or against the assignees, or against any shall not upon the day limited for his surrendering, dispute them.
person acting under the warrant of the surrender, and before three of the clock of court, for anything done under such such day, or at the hour and upon the day warrant, no proof shall be required at the allowed him for finishing his examination, trial, of the petitioning creditor's debt, or of after notice thereof in writing to be served the act of the insolvency respectively, unless upon him personally or left at the usual or the other party in such action shall, if last known place of abode or business of defendant at or before answering, and if such person, or personal notice in case such plaintiff before issue joined, give notice in person be then in prison, and notice given in writing to such assignees or other person the gazette of the filing of the petition for that he intends to dispute one or both, and sequestration of his estate as insolvent, as which of such matters; and in case such the case may be, and of the sittings of the notice shall have been given, if such court (having no lawful impediment proved assignees or other person shall prove the to the satisfaction of the court at such time, matter so disputed, or the other party admit and allowed by the court by a memorandum the same, the judge before whom the cause thereof then made on the proceedings), shall be tried may (if he think fit) grant ^ surrender himself to such court and sign or certificate of such proof or admission; and .
subscribe such surrender, and submit to be such assignees or other person shall be examined before such court from time to entitled to the costs occasioned by such time; or if any such insolvent upon such notice, and such costs shall, if such assignees examination shall not discover all his real not discovering or other person shall obtain a judgment, be and personal estate, and how and to whom, his property, added to the costs, and if the other party upon what consideration, and when he v/56 insolvents [cap.103 disposed of, assigned, or transferred any of 150.
any insolvent or insolvent's wife false evidence.
such estate (and all books, papers, and who shall upon any examination directed or writings relating thereunto), except such authorized by this ordinance, and any part as shall have been really and bona fide person who shall upon any examination, or before sold or disposed of in the way of his in any affidavit or deposition so authorized trade or laid out in the ordinary expenses of or directed, or in any affidavit or his family ; or if any such insolvent, upon deposition, wilfully and corruptly give false giving false not delivering such examination, shall not deliver up to evidence, or wilfully and corruptly swear evidence his books.
&c- such court all such parts of such estate, and anything which shall be false, being all books, papers, and writings relating convicted thereof, shall be liable to the thereunto, as shall be in his possession, penalties prescribed for the offence of giving custody, or power (except the necessary false evidence in a judicial proceeding.
wearing apparel of himself, his wife, and children) ; or if any such insolvent shall 151.
if at the sitting appointed for the if at last removing, remove, conceal, or embezzle any part of last examination of any insolvent, or at any examination it appears that concealing, or such estate to the value of one hundred adjournment thereof, it shall appear to the insolvent has embezzling rupees or upwards, or any books of district court that the insolvent has been guilty of property, books, &c- accounts, papers, or writings relating committed any of the offences hereinafter any of the following thereto, with intent to defraud his creditors, enumerated, the court shall refuse to grant offences, every such insolvent shall be liable to such the insolvent any further protection from further punishment.
term of imprisonment not less than seven arrest, and if at any sitting or adjourned protection refused ; years as the court of appeal shall judge, or sitting for the allowance of the certificate of certificate shall be liable to imprisonment, with or any insolvent, it shall appear that he has refused or without hard labour, for any term not committed any of such offences, the court suspended.
exceeding seven years.
shall refuse to grant such certificate, or shall suspend the same for such time as it shall think fit, and shall in like manner refuse to insolvent 148.
if any insolvent shall, after an act grant the insolvent any further protection— destroying or of insolvency committed, or in falsifying contemplation of insolvency, or with intent books, &c. (i) if the insolvent shall at any time after offences.
to defeat the object of the law relating to the filing of the petition for sequestration of insolvents, destroy, alter, mutilate, or falsify his estate, or within two months next any of his books, papers, writings, or preceding the filing of such petition, with securities, or make or be privy to the intent to conceal the state of his affairs, or making of any false or fraudulent entry in to defeat the objects of the law of any book of account or other document, insolvency, have destroyed any book, paper, with intent to defraud his creditors, every deed, writing, or other document relating to punishment.
such insolvent shall on conviction be liable his trade, dealings, or estate ; to imprisonment, with or without hard labour, for any term not exceeding three (ii) if the insolvent shall, with the like years.
intent, have kept or caused to be kept false books, or have made false entries in, or insolvent 149.
if any insolvent shall within three withheld entries from, or wilfully altered or obtaining months next preceding the date of the filing falsified any book, paper, deed, writing, or goods on credit under false of the petition for sequestration of his other document relating to his trade, pretences, estate, under the false colour and pretence dealings, or estate ; of carrying on business and dealing in the ordinary course of trade, obtain on credit (iii) if the insolvent shall have contracted from any other person any goods or any of his debts by any manner of fraud, or property with intent to defraud the owner by means of false pretences, or shall by any thereof ; or if any insolvent shall, within manner of fraud, or by means of false or removing or such time and with such intent, remove, pretences, have obtained the forbearance of concealing conceal, or dispose of any goods or property any of his debts by any of his creditors ; goods so obtained.
so obtained, every such insolvent shall on punishment.
conviction be liable to imprisonment, with (iv) if the insolvent shall at any time or without hard labour, for any term not within two months next preceding the filing exceeding two years.
of the petition for sequestration of his v/57