insolvents [cap.103 merely of increasing the number of votes at might according to the laws of sri lanka the election for assignees and thereby have disposed, and all such lands in sri influencing the same, or to have undertaken lanka as he shall purchase, or as shall to share with any creditor of the insolvent, descend, be devised, revert to, or come to in return for his vote, the commission or such insolvent before he shall have obtained remuneration to be awarded to him as such his certificate, and all deeds, papers, and assignee, the court shall declare such writings respecting the same, shall become assignee to have forfeited the office of such absolutely vested in the assignees for the assignee in regard to the insolvent estate for time being, for the benefit of the which he shall have been elected, and to be creditors'of the insolvent, by virtue of their incapable of being again elected thereto; appointment, without any deed of and it shall be lawful for such court, if it conveyance for that purpose, and as often as •should so think fit, to further declare that any such assignee shall die or be lawfully the person so offending shall be incapable of removed or displaced, and a new assignee being elected an assignee under the shall be duly appointed, such of the provisions of this ordinance for and during aforesaid real estate as shall remain unsold his natural life, or for such period as such or unconveyed, shall, by virtue of such court shall determine and adjudge ; and any appointment, vest in the new assignee, either person interested in the due administration alone or jointly with the existing assignees, of the insolvent estate may apply by motion as the case may require, without any to such court to declare any such assignee to conveyance for that purpose.
have forfeited his office by reason of any such misconduct as aforesaid ; and as often 72.
if the assignees of the estate and insolvent not as a vacancy in the office of assignee shall effects of any insolvent having or being liable to rents be created by any such forfeiture, the court or covenants in entitled to any land under a conveyance to declaring the same shall order a new conveyances, him, or under an agreement for any such leases, &c., if assignee to be chosen by the creditors, and conveyance, subject to any perpetual yearly assignees the same proceedings shall be had thereon rent reserved by such conveyance or accept the as on the original election of assignees.
same.
agreement, or having or. being entitled to any lease or agreement for a lease, shall movable 70.
when any person shall have been property to adjudged an insolvent, all his personal estate elect to take such land, or the benefit of vest in such conveyance or agreement, or such lease and effects, present and future, wheresoever assignees.
or agreement for a lease, as the case may be, the same may be found or known, and all the insolvent shall not be liable to pay any property which he may purchase, or which rent accruing after the filing of the petition may revert, descend, be devised or for sequestration of his estate against him, bequeathed, or come to him before he shall or to be sued in respect of any subsequent have obtained his certificate, and all debts non-observance or non-performance of the due or to be due to him, wheresoever the conditions, covenants, or agreements in any same may be found or known, and the such conveyance or agreement, or lease or property, right, and interest in such debts, shall become absolutely vested in the agreement for a lease; and if the assignees how if shall decline to take such land, or the assignees assignees for the time being, for the benefit decline.
benefit of such conveyance or agreement or of the creditors of the insolvent, by virtue of lease or agreement for lease, the insolvent their appointment; and after such shall not be liable if, within fourteen days appointment neither the insolvent nor any after he shall have had notice that the person claiming through or under him shall assignees have declined, he shall deliver up have power to recover the same, nor to such conveyance or agreement or lease or make any release or discharge thereof; but agreement for lease to the person then such assignees shall have like remedy to entitled to the rent, or having so agreed to recover the same in their own names as the insolvent himself might have had if he had •lease, as the case may be; and if the how assignees assignees shall not (upon being thereto compelled to not been adjudged insolvent.
elect.
required) elect whether they will accept or immovable 71.
when any person shall have been decline such land or conveyance or property to adjudged an insolvent, all lands in sri agreement for conveyance, or such lease vest in lanka to which any insolvent is entitled, or agreement for a lease, any person entitled assignees.
and all interest to which such insolvent is to such rent, or having so conveyed or entitled in any such lands, and of which he agreed to convey, or leased or agreed to v/41 cap.
103] insolvents lease, or any person claiming under him, money or other performance, according to shall be entitled to apply to the district such condition, as fully as the insolvent court, and the district court may order might have done, and after such tender, them to elect and deliver up such payment, or performance such real or conveyance or agreement for conveyance or personal estate may be sold and disposed of lease, or agreement for lease, in case they for the benefit of the creditors.
shall decline the same, and the possession of the premises, or may make such other order 77.
in every case the assignees may, with assignees may the approbation of the district court, appoint the therein as it shall think fit.
insolvent to appoint the insolvent himself to superintend manage the the management of the estate or to carry on assignees how 73.
if any insolvent shall have entered estate.
the trade of such insolvent for behoof of the compelled to into any agreement for the purchase of any elect whether creditors, and in all or any other respects estate or interest in land, the vendor thereof, they will abide they may think fit to aid them in or any person claiming under him, if the by or decline administering the insolvent's estate and agreement for assignees shall not (upon being thereto the purchase of required) elect whether they will abide by effects, in such manner and on such terms as land.
they may think best for the benefit of the and execute such agreement or abandon the persons interested in the estate.
same, may apply to the district court, and the court may thereupon order them to 78.
the assignees shall be subject to the assignees to deliver up the agreement and the possession orders of the district court in their conduct subject to of the premises to the vendor or person as assignees; and it shall be lawful for the orders of the court.
claiming under him, or may make such court at all times to summon the assignees, other order therein as such court shall think and require them to produce all books, fit.
papers, deeds, writings, and other documents relating to the insolvency in their assignees may 74.
all powers vested in any insolvent possession, and to direct them to pay and execute power which he might legally execute for his own deliver over to the court all moneys, books, vested in the benefit may be executed by the assignees for insolvent.
papers, deeds, writings, and other the benefit of the creditors in such manner documents which may have come to their as the insolvent might have executed the possession or custody as such assignees.
same.
79.
if any person adjudged insolvent where one of court may 75.
it shall be lawful for the district shall at the time of the adjudication of firm is order insolvent court, upon the application of the assignees insolvency be a member of a firm, it shall be insolvent, the to join in court may or of any purchaser from them of any part lawful for the district court to authorize conveyances.
authorize of the insolvent's estate, if such insolvent the assignees, upon their application to action in name shall not try the validity of the adjudication, commence or prosecute any action in the of the assignee; or if there shall have been a judgment name of such assignees and of the remaining and of the other partner.
establishing its validity, to order the partner against any debtor of the insolvent to join in any conveyance of such partnership, and such judgment, decree, or estate or any part thereof; and if he shall order may be obtained therein as if such not execute any such conveyance within the action had been instituted with the consent time directed by the order, such insolvent of such partner, and if such partner shall and all persons claiming under him shall be execute any release of the debt or demand stopped from objecting to the validity of for which such action is instituted such such conveyance, and all estate, right, or release shall be void : title which such insolvent had therein shall be as effectually barred by such order as if provided that every such partner shall partner to have such conveyance had been executed by him.
have notice given him of such application, notice, and and be at liberty to show cause against it, may show cause.
property 76.
if any insolvent shall have granted, and if no benefit be claimed by him by mortgaged or conveyed, assured, or pledged any real or virtue of the said proceedings shall be pledged may be personal estate, or deposited any deeds, "indemnified against the payment of any redeemed by the assignees.
such grant, conveyance, assurance, pledge, costs in respect of such action in such or deposit being upon condition or power of manner as the court may direct; and it shall redemption at a future day by payment of be lawful for such court, upon the money or otherwise, the assignees may, application of such partner, to direct that he before the time of the performance of such may receive so much of the proceeds of such condition, make tender or payment of action as such court shall direct.
v/42 insolvents [cap.103 as to sale of 80.
the assignees shall, subject to the creditors, or any proportion of them as the estates by directions of the creditors given at any court shall think fit to direct, the assignees assignees, meeting of such creditors, forthwith proceed may take such reasonable part of any debt conditions of sale, &c. to make sale of all the property belonging due to the insolvent's estate as may by to the insolvent, real and personal, giving composition be obtained, or may give time due notice thereof in the gazette, and also or take security for the payment of such and refer such other notice as they shall think fit: debts, and may, with like leave of the court, disputes to arbitrators.
submit to arbitration any difference or provided that from the sale of the said dispute between the assignees and any other personal property shall be excepted, until person for or on account or by reason of the creditors shall determine thereon, the anything relating to the estate and effects of wearing apparel, bedding, household the insolvent.
furniture, and tools of trade of the insolvent and his family ; and 83.
if the assignees shall agree in reference to manner aforesaid to refer any matter in arbitration provided that the sale of all real property dispute to arbitration, such agreement of may be made a rule of court.
shall take place in such manner and under reference may be made a rule of court, such conditions as shall be determined on whether such agreement contain a clause to by the greater part in number and value of that effect or not.
the creditors present at any meeting duly summoned; 84.
all persons from whom the if petition or assignees shall have recovered any real or adjudication be annulled, &c., provided, however, that such conditions personal estate, either by judgment or persons from shall be subject to the approval or decree, are hereby discharged, in case the whom the disapproval of the district court on the petition for sequestration or the assignees have application of any person interested therein.
adjudication of insolvency thereunder be recovered, or who have bona afterwards annulled or dismissed, from all fide paid the as to wearing 81.
it shall be lawful for the assignees, demands which may thereafter be made in assignees, &c., apparel, tools, with the consent of the greater part in respect of the same by the person against discharged &c., of number and value of the creditors who shall from claims by insolvent.
whom such adjudication was made, and all have proved their debts present at any the insolvent.
persons claiming under him ; and all persons meeting of creditors whereof, and of the who shall, without action, bona fide deliver purpose of which ten days' notice shall have up possession of any real or personal estate been given in the gazette, to permit the to the assignees, or pay any debt claimed by insolvent to retain, for his own use, the them, are hereby discharged from all claim whole or such part of his wearing apparel, of any such person as aforesaid in respect of bedding, household furniture and tools of the same, or any person claiming under trade excepted from the sale of his personal him; property, as the said creditors shall agree to allow to the said insolvent: provided the person so delivering up any real or personal estate, or paying any debt, provided that every such permission shall shall not have had notice of an action or be subject to the approval or disapproval of other proceeding to dispute or annul the the district court on the application of any petition for sequestration or adjudication person interested in the due administration thereunder, and such action or other of the estate.
proceeding shall not have been commenced and prosecuted within the time and in assignees, with 82.
the assignees, with the leave of the manner allowed by this ordinance- leave of the district court first obtained, upon court, may application to such court, but not otherwise, 85.
if any assignee, indebted to the assignee bring or defend may commence, prosecute, or defend any estate of which he is such assignee in respect indebted to the actions; action which the insolvent might have of money, being part of the estate of the estate becoming commenced and prosecuted or defended, insolvent retained or employed by him, insolvent, his and in such case the costs to which they may become insolvent, and obtain his certificate, future property be put in respect of such action shall be it shall have the effect only of freeing his liable, allowed out of the proceeds of the estate person from arrest and imprisonment, but and effects of the insolvent; and with his future effects, (his tools of trade, may compound like leave of the court, after notice to the necessary household goods, and the debts; creditors, and subject to such condition necessary wearing apparel of himself, his (if any) as to obtaining the consent of wife, and children excepted,) shall remain v/43