bills of exchange [cap.92 account to be debited with the amount, or one or some of several payees. a bill may {b) a statement of the transaction which also be made payable to the holder of an gives rise to the bill, is unconditional. office for the time being. date, place, (4) a bill is not invalid by reason— (3) where the payee is a fictitious or non- and value. existing person the bill may be treated as (a) that it is not dated ; payable to bearer. (b) that it does not specify the value 8. (1) when a 'bill 'contains words what bills are given, or that any value has been prohibiting transfer, or indicating an negotiable. given therefor ; intention that it should not be transferable, (c) that it does not specify the place it is valid as between the parties thereto, but where it is drawn or the place where is not negotiable, it is payable. (2) a negotiable bill may be payable inland and 4. (1) an inland bill is a bill which is, or either to order or to bearer. foreign bills. on the face of it purports to be— (3) a bill is payable to bearer which is (a) both drawn and payable within sri expressed to be so payable, or on which the lanka,or only or last indorsement is an indorsement in blank. (b) drawn within sri lanka upon some (4) a bill is payable to order which is person resident therein. expressed to be so payable, or which is any other bill is a foreign bill. expressed to be payable to a particular person, and does not contain words (2) unless the contrary appear on the prohibiting transfer or indicating an face of the bill the holder may treat it as an intention that it should not be transferable. inland bill. (5) where a bill, either originally or by effect where 5. (1) a bill may be drawn payable to, indorsement, is expressed to be payable to different or to the order of, the drawer ; or it may be the order of a specified person, and not to parties to bill are the same drawn payable to, or to the order of, the him or his order, it is nevertheless payable person. drawee. to him or his order at his option. drawer and (2) where in a bill drawer and drawee are 9. (1) the sum payable by a bill is a sum payable. drawee same the same person, or where the drawee is a sum certain within the meaning of this person or firm. fictitious person or a person not having ordinance, although it is required to be capacity to contract, the holder may treat paid— the instrument, at his option, either as a bill (a) with interest; of exchange or as a promissory note. (b) by stated instalments ; address to 6. (1) the drawee must be named or drawee. otherwise indicated in a bill with reasonable (c) by stated instalments, with a certainty. provision that upon default in payment of any instalment the (2) a bill may be addressed to two or whole shall become due ; more drawees whether they are partners or not, but an order addressed to two drawees (d) according to an indicated rate of in the alternative, or to two or more exchange, or according to a rate of drawees in succession, is not a bill of exchange to be ascertained as exchange. directed by the bill. certainty 7. (1) where a bill is not payable to (2) where the sum payable is expressed required as to bearer, the payee must be named or in words and also in figures, and there is a payee. otherwise indicated therein with reasonable discrepancy between the two, the sum certainty. denoted by the words is the amount payable. (2) a bill may be made payable to two or more payees jointly, or it may be made (3) where a bill is expressed to be payable in the alternative to one of two, or payable with interest, unless the instrument iv/163 cap.92] bills of exchange otherwise provides, interest runs from the provided that— date of the bill, and if the bill is undated, (i) where the holder in good faith and by from the issue thereof. mistake inserts a wrong date, and (4) where. a bill is expressed to be (ii) in every case where a wrong date is payable with interest, unless the instrument inserted, if the bill subsequently comes into otherwise provides, the interest shall be at the hands of a holder in due course the bill the rate of mneper centum per annum : shall not be avoided thereby, but shall operate and be payable as if the date so provided that the amount recoverable on inserted had been the true date. account of interest or arrears of interest shall in no case exceed the principal. 13. (1) where a bill or an acceptance presumption as bill payable on 10. (1) a bill is payable on demand— or any , i , n , dors , emen , t on a bill , is dated, , th , e t t o r u e d a d t a e t e b . eing demand. date shall, unless the contrary be proved, be (a) which is expressed to be payable on deemed to be the true date of the drawing, demand, or at sight, or on acceptance, or indorsement, as the case may presentation ; or be. (2) a bill is not invalid by reason only (b) in which no time for payment is that it is antedated or postdated, or that it expressed. bears date on a sunday. 14. where a bill is not payable on computation (2) where a bill is accepted or indorsed demand, the day on which it falls due is oftlmeof when it is overdue, it shall, as regards the payment. determined as follows :— acceptor who so accepts, or any indorser who so indorses it, be deemed a bill payable (1) three days, called days of grace, are, on demand. in every case where the bill itself does not otherwise provide, added bill payable at 11. (1) a bill is payable at a to the time of payment as fixed by a future time. determinable future time within the meaning the bill, and the bill is due and of this ordinance which is expressed to be payable on the last day of grace : payable— * provided that— (a) at a fixed period after date or sight ; (a) when the last day of grace falls on a day appointed to be a (b) on or at a fixed period after the public holiday by or under occurrence of a specified event any law for the time being in which is certain to happen, though force, the bill is, except in the the time of happening may be case hereinafter provided for, uncertain. due and payable on the preceding business day ; (2) an instrument expressed to be (b) when the last day of grace is a payable on a contingency is not a bill, and bank holiday, or when the last the happening of the event does not cure the day of grace is a sunday and defect. the second day of grace is a bank holiday, the bill is due omission of 12. where a bill expressed to be payable and payable on the succeeding date in bill at a fixed period after date is issued payable after business day. undated, or where the acceptance of a bill date, or acceptance payable at a fixed period after sight is (2) where a bill is payable at a fixed after sight. undated, any holder may insert therein the period after date, after sight, or true date of issue or acceptance, and the bill after the happening of a specified shall be payable accordingly : event, the time of payment is * the changes made to the proviso to section 14 (1) have been necessitated by the provisions of section 3 of the holidays act (no. 29 of 1971) — reproduced in this edition as chapter 364 — which materially differs from the now repealed holidays ordinance. no. 1 of 1928, reproduced as chapter 135 in volume iii of the 1938 edition of the legislative enactments. iv/164