cap. 92] bills of exchange (5) where a bill is drawn in one country (a) countermand of payment; and is payable in another, the due date thereof is determined (b) notice of the customer's death. according to the law of the place where it is payable, crossed cheques 76. (1) where a cheque bears across its general and part iii face an addition of two parallel transverse special crossings lines, either with or without the words defined. cheques on a banker [§4, 30 of "not negotiable", that 1961.] cheque 73. a cheque is a bill of exchange drawn addition constitutes a crossing and the defined. on a banker payable on demand. cheque is crossed generally. (2) where a cheque bears across its face [§ 4, 30 of except as otherwise provided in this part, an addition of the name of a banker, either 1961.1 the provisions of this ordinance applicable with or without the words to a bill of exchange payable on demand " not negotiable", that addition constitutes a apply to a cheque. crossing, and the cheque is crossed specially and to that banker. presentment 74. subject to the provisions of this of cheque ordinance— for payment. 77. (1) a cheque may be crossed crossing by generally or specially by the drawer, drawer or (1) where a cheque is not presented for 6 -' • •' •• after issue. payment within a reasonable time (2) where a cheque is uncrossed, the of its issue, and the drawer or the holder may cross it generally or specially. person on whose account it is drawn had the right at the time of (3) where a cheque is crossed generally, such presentment as between him the holder may cross it specially. and the banker to have the cheque paid and suffers actual damage (4) where a cheque is crossed generally [ § 5,30 of through the delay, he is discharged to the extent of such damage, that or specially, the holder may add the words 1961-] is to say, to the extent to which " not negotiable ". such drawer or person is a creditor of such banker to a larger amount (5) where a cheque is crossed specially, than he would have been" had such the banker to whom it is crossed may again cheque been paid. cross it specially to another banker for collection. (2) in determining what is a reasonable time regard shall be had to the (6) where an uncrossed cheque or a nature of the instrument, the usage cheque crossed generally is sent to a banker of trade and of bankers, and the for collection, he may cross it specially to facts of the particular case. himself. (3) the holder of such cheque as to which 78. a crossing authorized by this crossing a such drawer or person is discharged ordinance is a material part of the cheque ; material part shall be a creditor, in lieu of such of cheque. it shall not be lawful for any person to drawer or person, of such banker to obliterate, or, except as authorized by this the extent of such discharge, and •ordinance, to add to or alter the crossing. entitled to recover the amount from him. 79. (1) where a cheque is crossed duties of specially to more than one banker, except banker -as to crossed revocation of 75. the duty and authority of a banker when crossed to an agent for collection cheque. banker's to pay a cheque drawn on him by his being a banker, the banker on whom it is authority. customer are determined by— drawn shall refuse payment thereof. iv/180 bills of exchange [cap. 92 (2) where the banker on whom a cheque specially to himself, and the customer has is drawn which is so crossed nevertheless no title or a defective title thereto, the pays the same, or pays a cheque crossed banker shall not incur any liability to the generally otherwise than to a banker, or if true owner of the cheque by reason only of crossed specially otherwise than to the having received such payment. banker to whom it is crossed, or his agent for collection being a banker, he is liable to (2) a banker receives payment of a the true owner of the cheque for any loss he crossed cheque for a customer within the may sustain owing to the cheque having meaning of this section notwithstanding that been so paid: he credits his customer's account with the amount of the cheque before receiving provided that where a cheque is presented payment thereof. for payment which does not at the time of presentment appear to be crossed, or to have had a crossing which has been 83. sections 76 to 82, both inclusive, of extension of obliterated, or to have been added to or this ordinance shall extend to any sections 76 to 82 to certain altered otherwise than as authorized by this document issued by a customer of any drafts on ordinance, the banker paying the cheque in banker, and intended to enable any person bankers. good faith and without negligence shall not or body corporate to obtain payment from be responsible or incur any liability, nor such banker of the sum mentioned in such shall the payment be questioned by reason document, and shall so extend in like of the cheque having been crossed, or of the manner as if the said document were a crossing having been obliterated or having cheque: been added to or altered otherwise than as authorized by this ordinance, and of provided that nothing in this ordinance payment having been made otherwise than shall be deemed to render any such to a banker or to the banker to whom the document a negotiable instrument. cheque is or was crossed, or to his agent for collection being a banker, as the case may for the purpose of this section, the be. deputy secretary to the treasury shall be deemed to be a banker, and the public protection to 80. where the banker on whom a officers drawing on him shall be deemed banker and crossed cheque is drawn, in good faith and customers. drawer where without negligence pays it, if crossed cheque is crossed. generally, to a banker, and if crossed 84. sections 76 to 82, both inclusive, of application specially, to the banker to whom it is this ordinance shall apply to a banker's of sections 76 to 82 to crossed, or his agent for collection, being a draft as if that draft were a cheque. drafts drawn banker, the banker paying the cheque, and, by a bank on if the cheque has come into the hands of the for the purposes of this section, the itself. payee, the drawer, shall respectively be expression " banker's draft" means a draft entitled to the same rights and be placed in payable on demand drawn by or on behalf the same position as if payment of the of a bank upon itself, whether payable at cheque had been made to the true owner the head office or some other office of the thereof. bank. effect of 81. where a person takes a crossed crossing with cheque which bears on it the words part iv words " not " not negotiable ", he shall negotiable" not have and shall not be capable of giving ' promissory notes on holder. [§6.30 of 11 a better title to the cheque than that which 1961.] the person from whom he took it had. 85. (1) a promissory note is an promissory unconditional promise in writing made by note defined. one person to another signed by the maker, engaging to pay, on demand or at a fixed or . protection to 82. (1) where a banker in good faith determinable future time, a sum certain in collecting and without negligence receives payment for money, to,- or to the order of, a specified banker. a customer of a cheque crossed generally or person or to bearer. iv/181