bills of exchange [cap.92 the provisions of this subsection do not (a) where a place of payment is apply to a partial acceptance, whereof due specified in the bill and the notice has been given.
where a foreign bill bill is there presented; has been accepted as to part, it must be protested as to the balance, (b) where no place of payment is specified, but the address of (3) when the drawer or indorser of a bill the drawee or acceptor is receives notice of a qualified acceptance, given in the bill, and the bill is and does not within a reasonable time there presented; express his dissent to the holder, he shall be (c) where no place of payment is deemed to have assented thereto.
specified, and no address given, and the bill is presented presentment 45. subject to the provisions of this at the drawee's or acceptor's for payment.
ordinance a bill must be duly presented for place of business, if known, payment.
if it be not so presented the and if not, at his ordinary drawer and indorsers shall be discharged. residence if known; a bill is duly presented for payment (d) in any other case, if presented to which is presented in accordance with the the drawee or acceptor, following rules:— wherever he can be found, or if presented at his last known (1) where the bill is not payable' on place of business or residence.
demand, presentment must be made on the day it falls due.
(5) where a bill is presented at the proper place, and after the exercise of (2) where the bill is payable on demand, reasonable diligence no person then, subject to the provisions of authorized to pay or refuse this ordinance, presentment must payment can be found there, no be made within a reasonable time further presentment to the drawee after its issue in order to render the or acceptor is required.
drawer liable, and within a reasonable time ' after its (6) where a bill is drawn upon or indorsement, in order to render the accepted by two or more persons indorser liable.
who are not partners, and no place of payment is specified, in determining what is a reasonable time, presentment must be made to them regard shall be had to the nature of all.
the bill, the usage of trade with (7) where the drawee or acceptor of a bill regard to similar bills, and the facts is dead, and no place of payment is of the particular case.
specified, presentment must be made to a personal representative,.
(3) presentment must be made by the if such there be, and with the holder or by some person exercise of reasonable diligence he authorized to receive payment on can be found.
his behalf at a reasonable hour on a business day, at the proper place as (8) where authorized by agreement or hereinafter defined, either to- the usage a presentment through the person designated by the bill as post office is sufficient.
payer, or to some person authorized to pay or refuse payment on his 46.
(1) delay in making presentment for excuses for behalf if with the exercise of payment is excused when the delay is caused delay or non- presentment reasonable diligence such person by circumstances beyond the control of the for payment.
can there be found- holder, and not imputable to his default, misconduct, or negligence.
when the cause (4) a bill is presented at the proper of delay ceases to operate presentment must place— be made with reasonable diligence.
13- iv/171 cap.92] bills of exchange (2) presentment for payment is dispensed provided that— with— (a) where a bill is dishonoured by non- acceptance, and notice of dishonour (a) where, after the exercise of reasonable is not given, the rights of a holder diligence, presentment, as required in due course subsequently to the by this ordinance, cannot be omission, shall not be prejudiced by effected ; the omission; (b) where the drawee is a fictitious (b) where a bill is dishonoured by non- person; acceptance and due notice of dishonour is given, it shall not be (c) as regards the drawer, where the necessary to give notice of a drawee or acceptor is not bound, as subsequent dishonour by non- between himself and the drawer, to payment unless the bill shall in the accept or pay the bill, and the meantime have been accepted.
drawer has no reason to believe that the bill would be paid if presented ; 49.
notice of dishonour in order to be rules as to valid and effectual must be given in notice of (d) as regards an indorser, where the bill accordance with the following rules:— dishonour was accepted or made for the (1) the notice must be given by or on accommodation of that indorser, behalf of the holder, or by or on and he has no reason to expect that behalf of an indorser who, at the the bill would be paid if presented ; time of giving it, is himself liable on the bill.
(e) by waiver of presentment, express or implied.
(2) notice of dishonour may be given by an agent, either in his own name or (3) the fact that the holder has reason to in the name of any party entitled to believe that the bill will, on presentment, be give notice, whether that party be dishonoured, does not dispense with the his principal or not.
necessity for presentment.
(3) where the notice is given by or on behalf of the holder, it enures for dishonour by 47.
(1) a bill is dishonoured by the benefit of all subsequent holders non-payment, non-payment— and all prior indorsers who-have a right of recourse against the party (a) when it is duly presented for payment to whom it is given.
and payment is refused or cannot (4) where notice is given by or on behalf be obtained, or of an indorser entitled to give notice as hereinbefore provided, it enures (b) when presentment is excused and
the for the benefit of the holder and all bill is overdue and unpaid.
indorsers subsequent to the party to whom notice is given.
(2) subject to the provisions of this ordinance, when a bill is dishonoured by (5) the notice may be given in writing or non-payment, an immediate right of by personal communication, and recourse against the drawer and indorsers may be given in any terms which accrues to the holder.
sufficiently identify the bill, and intimate that the bill has been notice of 48.
subject to the provisions of this dishonoured by non-acceptance or dishonour and ordinance when a bill has been non-payment.
'•• effect of dishonoured by non-acceptance or by non- non-notice.
payment, notice of dishonour must be given (6) the return of a dishonoured bill to to the drawer and each indorser, and any the drawer or an indorser is, in drawer or indorser to whom such notice is point of form, deemed a sufficient not given is discharged : notice of dishonour.
iv/172 bills of exchange [cap.92 (7) a written notice need not be signed, be a post at a convenient hour and an insufficient written notice on that day, and if there be no may be supplemented and validated such post on that day then by by verbal communication.
a the next post thereafter.
misdescription of the bill shall not vitiate the notice unless the party to (13) where a bill when dishonoured is in whom the notice is given is in fact the hands of an agent, he may misled thereby, either himself give notice to the panics liable on the bill or he may (8) where notice of dishonour is required give notice to his principal.
if he to be given to any person, it may be give notice to his principal, he must given either to the party himself, or do so within the same time as if he to his agent in that behalf.
were the holder, and the principal upon receipt of such notice has (9) when the drawer or indorser is dead, himself the same time for giving and the party giving notice knows notice as if the agent had been an it, the notice must be given to a independent holder.
personal representative if such there be and with the exercise of (14) where a party to a bill receives due reasonable diligence he can be notice of dishonour, he has after the found.
receipt of such notice the same period of time for giving notice to (10) where the drawer or indorser is antecedent parties that the holder insolvent or bankrupt, notice may has after the dishonour.
be given either to the party himself or to the assignee or trustee.
(15) where a notice of dishonour is duly addressed and posted, the sender is (11) where there are two or more deemed to have given due notice of drawers or indorsers who are not dishonour, notwithstanding any partners, notice must be given to miscarriage by the post office.
each of them, unless one of them has authority to receive such notice for the others.
50. (1) delay in giving notice of excuses for dishonour is excused where the delay is delay in giving notice of (12) the notice may by given as soon as caused by circumstances beyond the control dishonour, the bill is dishonoured, and must be of the party giving notice, and not given within a reasonable time imputable to his default, misconduct, or thereafter.
negligence.
when the cause of delay ceases to operate the notice must be given with in the absence of special circumstances reasonable diligence.
notice is not deemed to have been given within a reasonable time, (2) notice of dishonour is dispensed unless— with— (a) where the person giving and the person to receive notice reside (a) when, after the exercise of reasonable in the same place, the notice is diligence, notice as required by this given or sent off in time to ordinance cannot be given to or reach the latter on the day does not reach the drawer or after the dishonour of the bill; y indorser sought to be charged ; (b) where the person giving and the (b) by waiver express or implied.
notice person to receive notice reside of dishonour may be waived before in different places, the notice is the time of giving notice has sent off on the day after the arrived, or after the omission to dishonour of the bill, if there give due notice; iv/173 cap.
92] bills of exchange (c) as regards the drawer in the following a foreign bill, protest thereof in case of cases, namely— dishonour is unnecessary.
(3) a bill which has been protested for (i) where, drawer and drawee are the non-acceptance may be subsequently same person, protested for non-payment.
(ii) where the drawee is a fictitious (4) subject to the provisions of this person or a person not having ordinance, when a bill is noted or protested, capacity to contract, it may be noted on the day of its dishonour and must be noted not later than the next (iii) where the drawer is the person succeeding business day.
when a bill has to whom the bill is presented been duly noted, the protest may be for payment, subsequently extended as of the date of the (iv) where the drawee or acceptor is noting.
as between himself and the (5) where the acceptor of a bill becomes drawer under no obligation to bankrupt or insolvent or suspends payment accept or pay the bill, before it matures, the holder may cause the bill to be protested for better security (v) where the-- drawer has against the drawer and indorsers.
countermanded payment; (6) a bill must be protested at the place (d) as regards the indorser in the where it is dishonoured : following cases, namely— provided that— (i) where the drawee is a fictitious (a) when a bill is presented through the person or a person not having post office, and returned by post capacity to contract, and the dishonoured, it may be protested at indorser was aware of the fact the place to which it is returned and at the time he indorsed the on the day of its return if received bill, during business hours, and if not received during business hours, then (ii) where the indorser is the person .
not later than the next business to whom the bill is presented day; for payment, (b) when a bill drawn payable at the (iii) where the bill was accepted or place of business or residence of made for his accommodation.
some person other than the drawee has been dishonoured by non- noting inland 51.
(1) where an inland bill has been acceptance, it must be protested for bill.
dishonoured it may, if the holder think fit, non-payment at the place where it is be noted for non-acceptance or non- expressed to be payable, and no payment, as the case may be; but it shall further presentment for payment to, not be necessary to note or protest any such or demand on, the drawee is necessary.
bill in order to preserve the recourse against the drawer or indorser.
(7) a protest must contain a copy of the bill, and must be signed by the notary (2) where a foreign bill, appearing on the making it, and must specify— face of it to be such, has been dishonoured by non-acceptance it must be duly protested (a) the person at whose request the bill is for non-acceptance, and where such a bill protested; which has not been previously dishonoured (b) the place and date of protest, the by non-acceptance, is dishonoured by non- cause or reason for protesting the payment, it must be duly protested for non- bill, the demand made, and the payment.
if it be not so protested the answer given, if any, or the fact that drawer and indorsers are discharged.
where the drawee or acceptor could not be a bill does not appear on the face of it to be found.
iv/174