cap.92] bills of exchange time for .40.
(i) subject to the provisions of this person or a person not having presenting bill ordinance, when a bill payable after sight is capacity to contract by bill; payable after negotiated, the holder must either present it sight.
(b) where, after the exercise of for acceptance or negotiate it within a reasonable diligence, such reasonable time.
presentment cannot be effected ; (2) if he do not do so, the drawer and all (c) where, although the presentment has indorsers prior to that holder are been irregular, acceptance has been discharged.
refused on some other ground.
(3) in determining what is a reasonable (3) the fact that the holder has reason to time within the meaning of this section, believe that the bill, on presentment, will be regard shall be had to the nature of the bill, dishonoured does not excuse presentment.
the usage of the trade with respect to similar bills, and the facts of the particular case.
42. (1) when a bill is duly presented for non- acceptance, and is not accepted within the acceptance rules 41.
(1) a bill is duly presented for after regarding acceptance which is presented in accordance customary time, the person presenting it customary presentment with the following rules;— must treat it as dishonoured by non- time.
for acceptance, acceptance.
if he do not, the holder shall and excuses for non-presentment.
(a) the presentment must be made by or lose his right of recourse against the drawer on behalf of the holder to the and indorsers.
drawee or to some person authorized to accept or refuse (2) where the day on which a bill should acceptance on his behalf at a be accepted is a bank holiday, the bill shall reasonable hour on a business day be accepted on the succeeding business day.
and before the bit! is overdue ; 43.
(1) a bill is dishonoured by dishonour by (b) where a bill is addressed to two or non-acceptance— non-acceptance more drawees, who are not and its consequences.
partners, presentment must be (a) when it is duly presented for made to them all, unless one has acceptance, and such an acceptance authority to accept for all, then as is prescribed by this ordinance is presentment may be made to him refused or cannot be obtained ; or only; (b) when presentment for acceptance is (c) where the drawee is dead excused and the bill is not accepted.
presentment may be made to his personal representative; (2) subject to the provisions of this ordinance, when a bill is dishonoured by (d) where the drawee is insolvent or non-acceptance, an immediate right of bankrupt, presentment may be recourse against the drawer and indorsers made to him or to his assignee or accrues to the holder, and no presentment trustee; for payment is necessary, (e) where authorized by agreement or usage, a presentment through the 44.
(1) the holder of a bill may refuse duties as to post office is sufficient; to take a qualified acceptance, and if he qualified acceptances.
does not obtain an unqualified acceptance (f) where the day on which a bill should may treat the bill as dishonoured by be presented is a bank holiday, the non-acceptance.
bill shall be presented on the succeeding business day.
* (2) where a qualified acceptance is taken, and the drawer or an indorser has not (2) presentment in accordance with these expressly or impliedly authorized the holder rules is excused and a bill may be treated as to take a qualified acceptance, or does not dishonoured by non-acceptance— subsequently assent thereto, such drawer or - (ff) where the drawee is dead, insolvent, indorser is discharged from his liability on or bankrupt, or is a fictitious the bill.
iv/170 bills of exchange [cap.92 the provisions of this subsection do not (a) where a place of payment is apply to a partial acceptance, whereof due specified in the bill and the notice has been given.
where a foreign bill bill is there presented; has been accepted as to part, it must be protested as to the balance, (b) where no place of payment is specified, but the address of (3) when the drawer or indorser of a bill the drawee or acceptor is receives notice of a qualified acceptance, given in the bill, and the bill is and does not within a reasonable time there presented; express his dissent to the holder, he shall be (c) where no place of payment is deemed to have assented thereto.
specified, and no address given, and the bill is presented presentment 45. subject to the provisions of this at the drawee's or acceptor's for payment.
ordinance a bill must be duly presented for place of business, if known, payment.
if it be not so presented the and if not, at his ordinary drawer and indorsers shall be discharged. residence if known; a bill is duly presented for payment (d) in any other case, if presented to which is presented in accordance with the the drawee or acceptor, following rules:— wherever he can be found, or if presented at his last known (1) where the bill is not payable' on place of business or residence.
demand, presentment must be made on the day it falls due.
(5) where a bill is presented at the proper place, and after the exercise of (2) where the bill is payable on demand, reasonable diligence no person then, subject to the provisions of authorized to pay or refuse this ordinance, presentment must payment can be found there, no be made within a reasonable time further presentment to the drawee after its issue in order to render the or acceptor is required.
drawer liable, and within a reasonable time ' after its (6) where a bill is drawn upon or indorsement, in order to render the accepted by two or more persons indorser liable.
who are not partners, and no place of payment is specified, in determining what is a reasonable time, presentment must be made to them regard shall be had to the nature of all.
the bill, the usage of trade with (7) where the drawee or acceptor of a bill regard to similar bills, and the facts is dead, and no place of payment is of the particular case.
specified, presentment must be made to a personal representative,.
(3) presentment must be made by the if such there be, and with the holder or by some person exercise of reasonable diligence he authorized to receive payment on can be found.
his behalf at a reasonable hour on a business day, at the proper place as (8) where authorized by agreement or hereinafter defined, either to- the usage a presentment through the person designated by the bill as post office is sufficient.
payer, or to some person authorized to pay or refuse payment on his 46.
(1) delay in making presentment for excuses for behalf if with the exercise of payment is excused when the delay is caused delay or non- presentment reasonable diligence such person by circumstances beyond the control of the for payment.
can there be found- holder, and not imputable to his default, misconduct, or negligence.
when the cause (4) a bill is presented at the proper of delay ceases to operate presentment must place— be made with reasonable diligence.
13- iv/171