chapter 92 bills of exchange ordinances an ordinance to declare the law relating to bills of exchange, cheques, nos.
25 of 1927, bankers' drafts.
and promissory notes.
30 of 1930, acts nos.
5 of 1955, 25 of 1957, 30 of 1961.
[1st march, 1928.]
parti " holder " means the payee or indorsee of a bill or note who is in possession preliminary of it, or the bearer thereof; " indorsement " means an indorsement short title.
1. this ordinance may be cited as the completed by delivery; bills of exchange ordinance.
interpretation.
2. in this ordinance, unless the context " issue " means the first delivery of a bill otherwise requires— or note, complete in form, to a person who takes it as a holder; " acceptance" means an acceptance completed by delivery or " value " means valuable consideration ; notification; " action " includes a claim in reconvention " written" includes printed, and and set-off; " writing " includes print.
"banker" includes a body of persons, whether incorporated or not, who part ii carry on the business of banking; bills of exchange " bank holiday " means a day appointed form and interpretation to be a bank holiday by or under the powers contained in any 3. (1) a bill of exchange is an bill of enactment for the time being in unconditional order in writing, addressed by exchange force; defined.
one person to another, signed by the person giving it, requiring the person to whom it is " bankrupt" includes any person whose addressed to pay on demand, or at a fixed estate is vested in a trustee or -or determinable future time, a sum certain assignee under the law for the time in money to or to the order of a specified being in force relating to insolvency person, or to bearer.
or bankruptcy; (2) an instrument which does not " bearer " means the person in possession comply with these conditions, or which of a bill or note which is payable to orders any act to be done in addition to the bearer; payment of money, is not a bill of exchange.
" bill" means bill of exchange, and (3) an order to pay out of a particular particular " note " means promissory note; fund is not unconditional within the fund.
meaning of this section ; but an unqualified " delivery " means transfer of possession, order to pay, coupled with (a) an indication actual or constructive, from one of a particular fund out of which the drawee person to another; is to reimburse himself or a particular iv/162 bills of exchange [cap.92 account to be debited with the amount, or one or some of several payees.
a bill may {b) a statement of the transaction which also be made payable to the holder of an gives rise to the bill, is unconditional.
office for the time being.
date, place, (4) a bill is not invalid by reason— (3) where the payee is a fictitious or non- and value.
existing person the bill may be treated as (a) that it is not dated ; payable to bearer.
(b) that it does not specify the value 8.
(1)
when a 'bill 'contains words what bills are given, or that any value has been prohibiting transfer, or indicating an negotiable.
given therefor ; intention that it should not be transferable, (c) that it does not specify the place it is valid as between the parties thereto, but where it is drawn or the place where is not negotiable, it is payable.
(2) a negotiable bill may be payable inland and 4. (1) an inland bill is a bill which is, or either to order or to bearer.
foreign bills.
on the face of it purports to be— (3) a bill is payable to bearer which is (a) both drawn and payable within sri expressed to be so payable, or on which the lanka,or only or last indorsement is an indorsement in blank.
(b) drawn within sri lanka upon some (4) a bill is payable to order which is person resident therein.
expressed to be so payable, or which is any other bill is a foreign bill.
expressed to be payable to a particular person, and does not contain words (2) unless the contrary appear on the prohibiting transfer or indicating an face of the bill the holder may treat it as an intention that it should not be transferable.
inland bill.
(5) where a bill, either originally or by effect where 5. (1) a bill may be drawn payable to, indorsement, is expressed to be payable to different or to the order of, the drawer ; or it may be the order of a specified person, and not to parties to bill are the same drawn payable to, or to the order of, the him or his order, it is nevertheless payable person.
drawee.
to him or his order at his option.
drawer and (2) where in a bill drawer and drawee are 9. (1) the sum payable by a bill is a sum payable.
drawee same the same person, or where the drawee is a sum certain within the meaning of this person or firm.
fictitious person or a person not having ordinance, although it is required to be capacity to contract, the holder may treat paid— the instrument, at his option, either as a bill (a) with interest; of exchange or as a promissory note.
(b) by stated instalments ; address to 6. (1) the drawee must be named or drawee.
otherwise indicated in a bill with reasonable (c) by stated instalments, with a certainty.
provision that upon default in payment of any instalment the (2) a bill may be addressed to two or whole shall become due ; more drawees whether they are partners or not, but an order addressed to two drawees (d) according to an indicated rate of in the alternative, or to two or more exchange, or according to a rate of drawees in succession, is not a bill of exchange to be ascertained as exchange.
directed by the bill.
certainty 7.
(1) where a bill is not payable to (2) where the sum payable is expressed required as to bearer, the payee must be named or in words and also in figures, and there is a payee.
otherwise indicated therein with reasonable discrepancy between the two, the sum certainty.
denoted by the words is the amount payable.
(2) a bill may be made payable to two or more payees jointly, or it may be made (3) where a bill is expressed to be payable in the alternative to one of two, or payable with interest, unless the instrument iv/163