bills of exchange [cap.92 business, it is not incumbent on the banker 64, (1) where a bill or acceptance is alteration of to show that the indorsement of the payee materially altered without the assent of all bill.
or any subsequent indorsement was made parties liable on the bill, the bill is avoided', by or under the authority of the person except as against a party who has himself whose indorsement it purports to be, and made, authorized, or assented to the the banker is deemed to have paid the bill in alteration, and subsequent indorsers; due course, although such indorsement has been forged or made without authority.
provided that where a bill has been materially altered, but the alteration is not [§2.25 of (2) the provisions of subsection (1) shall apparent, and the bill is in the hands of a 1957.] apply to a banker's draft as if that draft holder in due course, such holder may avail were a bill referred to in that subsection.
himself of the bill as if it had not been altered; and may enforce payment of it in this subsection " banker's draft" has according to its original tenor.
the same meaning as in section 84.
(2) in particular the following alterations acceptor the 61.
when the acceptor of a bill is or are material, namely, any alteration of the holder at becomes the holder of it at or after its date, the sum payable, the time of payment, maturity.
maturity, in his own right, the bill is the place of payment, and, where a bill has discharged.
been accepted generally, the addition of a place of payment without the acceptor's express 62.
(1) when the holder of a bill at assent.
waiver or or after its maturity absolutely and renunciation.
unconditionally renounces his rights against acceptance and payment for honour the acceptor the bill is discharged.
65. (1) where a bill of exchange has acceptance for been protested for dishonour by non- honour supra' the renunciation must be in writing, acceptance, or protested for better security, protest.
unless the bill is delivered up to the and is not overdue, any person, not being a acceptor.
party already liable thereon, may, with the (2) the liabilities of any party to a bill consent of the holder, intervene and accept may in like manner be renounced by the the bill supra protest, for the honour of any holder before, at, or after its maturity, but party liable thereon, or for the honour of nothing in this section shall affect the rights the person for whose account the bill is of a holder in due course without notice of drawn.
the renunciation.
(2) a bill may be accepted for honour for cancellation.
63.
(1) where a bill is intentionally part only of the sum for which it is drawn. cancelled by the holder or his agent, and the cancellation is apparent thereon, the bill is (3) an acceptance for honour supra discharged.
protest in order to be valid must— (2) in like manner any party liable on a (a) be written on the bill, and indicate bill may be discharged by the intentional that it is an acceptance for honour; cancellation of his signature by the holder or his agent.
in such case any indorser who (b) be signed by the acceptor for honour.
would have had a right of recourse against the party whose signature is cancelled is also (4) where an acceptance for honour does discharged.
not expressly state for whose honour it is (3) a cancellation made unintentionally, made, it is deemed to be an acceptance for or under a mistake, or without the authority the honour of the drawer.
of the holder, is inoperative; but where a bill or any signature thereon appears to (5) where a bill payable after sight is have been cancelled, the burden of proof lies accepted for honour, its maturity is on the party who alleges that the calculated from the date of the noting for cancellation was made unintentionally, or non-acceptance, and not from the date of under a mistake, or without authority.
the acceptance for honour, iv/177 cap.
92] bills of exchange liability of 66.
(1) the acceptor for honour of a bill (3) payment for honour supra protest, in acceptor for by accepting it engages that he will, on due order to operate as such and not as a mere honour.
presentment, pay the bill according to the voluntary payment, must be attested by a tenor of his acceptance, if it is not paid by notarial act of honour which may be the drawee, provided it has been duly appended to the protest or form an presented for payment, and protested for extension of it.
non-payment, and that he receives notice of these facts- (4)
the notarial act of honour must be founded on a declaration made by the payer (2) the acceptor for honour is liable to for honour, or his agent in that behalf, the holder and to all parties to the bill declaring his intention to pay the bill for subsequent to the party for whose honour honour, and for whose honour he pays.
he has accepted.
(5) where a bill has been paid for honour, all parties subsequent to the party presentment to 67.
(1) where a dishonoured bill has for whose honour it is paid are discharged, acceptor for been accepted for honour supra protest, or but the payer for honour is subrogated for, honour. contains a reference in case of need, it must and succeeds to both the rights and duties be protested for non-payment before it is of, the holder as regards the party for whose presented for payment to the acceptor for honour he pays, and all parties liable to that honour, or referee in case of need.
party.
(6) the payer for honour on paying to (2) where the address of the acceptor for the holder the amount of the bill and the honour is in the same place where the bill is notarial expenses incidental to its dishonour protested for non-payment, the bill must be is entitled to receive both the bill itself and presented to him not later than the day the protest.
if the holder do not on demand following its maturity; "and where the deliver them up he shall be liable to the address of the acceptor for honour is in payer for honour in damages.
some place other than the place where it was protested for non-payment, the bill must be (7) where the holder of a bill refuses to forwarded not later than the day following receive payment supra protest he shall lose its maturity for presentment to him.
his right of recourse against any party who would have been discharged by such (3) delay in presentment or non- payment.
presentment is excused by any circumstance which would excuse delay in presentment for payment or .
non-presentment for lost instruments payment.
69.
where a bill has been lost before it is holder's right (4) when a bill of exchange is overdue, the person who was the holder of it to duplicate of dishonoured by the acceptor for honour it , , . , .
•
r may apply to the drawer to give him lost bill.
must be protested for non-payment by him.
another bill of the same tenor, giving security to the drawer if required to payment for 68.
(1) where a bill has been protested indemnify him against all persons whatever honour supra for non-payment, any person may intervene in case the bill alleged to have been lost protest.
and pay it supra protest for the honour of shall be found again.
any party liable thereon, or for the honour of the person for whose account the bill is if the drawer on request as aforesaid drawn. refuses to give such duplicate bill, he may be compelled to do so.
(2) where two or more persons offer to pay a bill.for the honour of different parties, 70.
in any action or proceeding upon a action on lost the person whose payment will discharge bill, the court or a judge may order that the bi11- most parties to the bill shall have the loss of the instrument shall not be set up, preference.
provided an indemnity be given to the iv/178