cap. 92] bills of exchange (c) as regards the drawer in the following a foreign bill, protest thereof in case of cases, namely— dishonour is unnecessary. (3) a bill which has been protested for (i) where, drawer and drawee are the non-acceptance may be subsequently same person, protested for non-payment. (ii) where the drawee is a fictitious (4) subject to the provisions of this person or a person not having ordinance, when a bill is noted or protested, capacity to contract, it may be noted on the day of its dishonour and must be noted not later than the next (iii) where the drawer is the person succeeding business day. when a bill has to whom the bill is presented been duly noted, the protest may be for payment, subsequently extended as of the date of the (iv) where the drawee or acceptor is noting. as between himself and the (5) where the acceptor of a bill becomes drawer under no obligation to bankrupt or insolvent or suspends payment accept or pay the bill, before it matures, the holder may cause the bill to be protested for better security (v) where the-- drawer has against the drawer and indorsers. countermanded payment; (6) a bill must be protested at the place (d) as regards the indorser in the where it is dishonoured : following cases, namely— provided that— (i) where the drawee is a fictitious (a) when a bill is presented through the person or a person not having post office, and returned by post capacity to contract, and the dishonoured, it may be protested at indorser was aware of the fact the place to which it is returned and at the time he indorsed the on the day of its return if received bill, during business hours, and if not received during business hours, then (ii) where the indorser is the person . not later than the next business to whom the bill is presented day; for payment, (b) when a bill drawn payable at the (iii) where the bill was accepted or place of business or residence of made for his accommodation. some person other than the drawee has been dishonoured by non- noting inland 51. (1) where an inland bill has been acceptance, it must be protested for bill. dishonoured it may, if the holder think fit, non-payment at the place where it is be noted for non-acceptance or non- expressed to be payable, and no payment, as the case may be; but it shall further presentment for payment to, not be necessary to note or protest any such or demand on, the drawee is necessary. bill in order to preserve the recourse against the drawer or indorser. (7) a protest must contain a copy of the bill, and must be signed by the notary (2) where a foreign bill, appearing on the making it, and must specify— face of it to be such, has been dishonoured by non-acceptance it must be duly protested (a) the person at whose request the bill is for non-acceptance, and where such a bill protested; which has not been previously dishonoured (b) the place and date of protest, the by non-acceptance, is dishonoured by non- cause or reason for protesting the payment, it must be duly protested for non- bill, the demand made, and the payment. if it be not so protested the answer given, if any, or the fact that drawer and indorsers are discharged. where the drawee or acceptor could not be a bill does not appear on the face of it to be found. iv/174 bills of exchange [cap. 92 (8) where a bill is lost or destroyed, or is (a) the existence of the drawer, the wrongly detained from the person entitled genuineness of his signature, to hold it, protest may be made on a copy and his capacity and authority or written particulars thereof. to draw the bill; (9) protest is dispensed with by any circumstance which would dispense with (b) in the case of a bill payable to notice of dishonour. delay in noting or drawer's order, the then protesting is excused when the delay is capacity of the drawer to caused by circumstances beyond the control indorse, but not the of the holder, and not imputable to his. genuineness or validity of his default, misconduct, or negligence. when indorsement; the cause of,delay ceases to operate the bill must be noted or protested with reasonable (c) in the case of a bill payable to diligence. the order of a third person, the existence of the payee and duties of 52. (1) when a bill is accepted generally his then capacity to indorse, holder as presentment for payment is not necessary in but not the genuineness or regards drawee , , , . . r 1.1 or acceptor, order to render the acceptor liable. validity of his indorsement. (2) when by the terms of a qualified 55. (1) the drawer of a bill by drawing it— liability of acceptance presentment for payment is drawer. required, the acceptor, in the absence of an (a) engages that on due presentment it express stipulation to that effect, is not shall be accepted and paid discharged by the omission to present the according to its tenor, and that if it bill for payment on the day that it matures. be dishonoured he will compensate the holder or any indorser who is (3) in order to render the acceptor of a compelled to pay it, provided that bill liable it is not necessary to protest it, or the requisite proceedings on that notice of dishonour should be given to dishonour be duly taken; him. (4) where the holder of a bill presents it (b) is precluded'from denying to a holder for payment, he shall exhibit the bill to the in due course the existence of the person from whom he demands payment, payee and his then capacity to and when a bill is paid the holder shall indorse. forthwith deliver it up to the party paying it. (2) the indorser of a bill, by indorsing it- liabilities of parties (a) engages that on due presentment it funds in hands 53. a bill, of itself, does not operate as shall be accepted and paid of drawee. an assignment of funds in the hands of the according to its tenor, and that if it drawee available for the payment thereof, be dishonoured he will compensate and the drawee of a bill who does not accept the holder or a subsequent indorser as required by this ordinance is not liable who is compelled to pay it, on the instrument. provided that the requisite proceedings on dishonour be duly liability of 54. the acceptor of a bill, by accepting taken; • acceptor. it- (1) engages that he will pay it according (b) is precluded from denying to a holder to the tenor of his acceptance ; in due course the genuineness and regularity in all respects of the (2) is precluded from denying to a holder drawer's signature and all previous in due course— indorsements • iv/175