bills of exchange [cap.
92 part v 96. where a dishonoured bill or note is protest when authorized or required to be protested, and notary not the services of a notary cannot be obtained accessible.
supplementary at the place where the bill is dishonoured, any householder or substantial resident of - good faith.
92.
a thing is deemed to be done in the place may, in the presence of two good faith within the meaning of this witnesses, give a certificate, signed by them, ordinance, where it is in fact done honestly, attesting the dishonour of the bill, and the whether it is done negligently or not.
certificate shall in all respects operate as if it were a formal protest of the bill.
signature.
93. (1) where, by this ordinance, any the form given in the schedule to this instrument or writing is required to be ordinance may be used with necessary signed by any person, it is not necessary that modifications, and if used shall be sufficient.
he should sign it with his own hand, but it is sufficient if his signature is written thereon by some other person by or under his 97.
the provisions of this ordinance as dividend authority.
to crossed cheques shall apply to a warrant warrants may be crossed.
for payment of dividend.
(2) in the case of a corporation, where, by this ordinance, any instrument or writing is required to be signed, it is 98.
(1) the rules in insolvency or savings.
sufficient if the instrument or writing be bankruptcy relating to bills of exchange, sealed with the corporate seal.
promissory notes, and cheques shall continue to apply thereto, notwithstanding but nothing in this section shall be anything in this ordinance contained.
construed as requiring the bill or note of a corporation to be under seal.
(2) the rules of the common law of england, including the law merchant, compulation 94.
where, by this ordinance, the time save in so far as they are inconsistent with. of time.
limited for doing any act or thing is less the express provisions of this ordinance, or than three days, in reckoning time, non- any other enactment for the time being in business days are excluded.
force, shall apply to bills of exchange, ' promissory notes, and cheques. "
non-business days " for the purposes of this ordinance mean— (3) nothing in this ordinance or in any repeal effected thereby shall affect— (a) a bank holiday; (a) any law or enactment for the time (b) a day appointed to be a public being in force relating to stamps or holiday by or under any law for the the revenue; time being in force.
(b) the provisions of the companies any other day is a business day.
ordinance,* or enactments amending it, or any enactment relating to joint stock banks or when noting 95.
for the purposes of this ordinance, companies; equivalent to where a bill or note is required to be protest.
(c) the provisions relating to promissory protested within a specified time or before notes contained in the money some further proceeding is taken, it is lending ordinance; sufficient that the bill has been noted for protest before the expiration of the specified time or the taking of the proceeding; and (d) the validity of any usage relating to the formal protest may be extended at any dividend warrants or the time thereafter as of the date of the noting.
indorsement thereof.
* repealed and replaced by the companies act, no. 17 of 1982.
iv/183 cap.
92] bills of exchange schedule [section 96.]
form of protest which may be used when the services of a notary cannot be obtained know all men that i. a. b. (householder), of................... in the district of...................in sri lanka, at the request of c. d., there being no notary public available, did on the................. -day of................... 19...., at................... demand payment (or acceptance) of the bill of exchange hereunder written, from e. f; to which demand he made answer (state answer, if any),
wherefore
i now in the presence of g. h. and ./. k. do protest the said bill of exchange.
(signed) a.b. g. h. ] witnesses.
j.k.]
mb.—the bill itself should be annexed, or a copy of the bill and all that is written thereon should be underwritten.
iv/184