cap.92] bills of exchange negotiation of bills (4) where, in a bill payable to order, the payee or indorsee is wrongly negotiation 31.
(1) a bill is negotiated when it is designated, or his name is misspelt, defined, transferred from one person to another in he may indorse the bill as therein such a manner as to constitute the transferee described, adding if he think fit, the holder of the bill.
his proper signature.
(2) a bill payable to bearer is negotiated (5) where there are two or more by delivery.
indorsements on a bill, each indorsement is deemed to have been (3) a bill payable to order is negotiated made in the order in which it by the indorsement of the holder completed appears on the bill until the by delivery.
contrary is proved.
(4) where the holder of a bill payable to (6) an indorsement may be made in his order transfers it for value without blank or special.
it may also indorsing it, the transfer gives the transferee contain terms making it restrictive.
such title as the transferor had in the bill and the transferee in addition acquires the 33. where a bill purports to be indorsed conditional right to have the indorsement of the conditionally the condition may be indorsement. transferor.
disregarded by the payer, and payment to (5) where any person is under obligation the indorsee is valid whether the condition to indorse a bill in a representative capacity, has been fulfilled or not.
he may indorse the bill in such terms as to 34.
(1) an indorsement in blank indorsement in negative personal liability.
specifies no indorsee, and a bill so indorsed blank- requisites of a 32.
an indorsement in order to operate becomes payable to bearer.
valid as a negotiation must comply with the indorsement, r f o ,, l low • ing con , d • it .
i ons, namel , y :— (2) a special indorsement specifies the person to whom, or to whose order, the bill (1) it must be written on the bill itself is to be payable.
and be signed by the indorser.
the * (3) the provisions of this ordinance simple signature of the indorser on relating to a payee apply with the necessary the bill, without additional words, modifications to an indorsee under a special is sufficient.
indorsement.
an indorsement written on an allonge, or (4) when a bill has been indorsed in on a " copy " of a bill issued or blank, any holder may convert the blank negotiated in a country where indorsement into a special indorsement by " copies " are recognized, is deemed writing above the indorsees signature a to be written on the bill itself, direction to pay the bill to or to the order of himself or some other person.
(2) it must be an indorsement of the entire bill.
a partial indorsement, 35. (1) an indorsement is restrictive restrictive that is to say, an indorsement which which prohibits the further negotiation of indorsement, purports to transfer to the indorsee the bill, or which expresses that it is a mere a part only of the amount payable, authority to deal with the bill as thereby or which purports to transfer the directed and not a transfer of the ownership bill to two or more indorsees thereof, as, for example, if a bill be [§3,30 of severally, does not operate as a endorsed— 1961.]
negotiation of the bill.
(3) where a bill is payable to the order of " pay d only " ; two or more payees or indorsees who are not partners all must or indorse, unless the one indorsing has authority to indorse for the others. "
pay d for the account of x " ; iv/168 bills of exchange [cap.92 entitled to enforce payment of the bill or against any intervening party to whom he was previously liable.
"pay d or order for coilection ".
38.
the rights and powers of the holder rights of the (2) a restrictive indorsement gives the of a bill are as follows :— holder-
indorsee the right to receive payment of the (a) he may sue on the bill in his own bill and to sue any party thereto that his name; indorser could have sued, but gives him no power to transfer his rights as indorsee (b) where he is a holder in due course, unless it expressly authorize him to do so.
he holds the bill free from any defect of title of prior parties, as (3) where a restrictive indorsement well as from mere personal defences authorizes further transfer, all subsequent available to prior parties among indorsees take the bill with the same rights themselves, and may enforce and subject to the same liabilities as the first payment against all parties liable on indorsee under the restrictive indorsement.
the bill; how long bill 36. (!) where a bill is negotiable in its (c) where his title is defective— continues origin it continues to be negotiable until it negotiable.
has been— (i) if he negotiates the bill to a holder in due course, that (a) restrictively indorsed, or holder obtains a good and complete title to the bill, and (b) discharged by payment or otherwise, (ii) if he obtains payment of the (2) where an overdue bill is negotiated, it bill, the person who pays him can only be negotiated subject to any defect in due course gets a valid of title affecting it at its maturity, and discharge for the bill.
thenceforward no person who takes it can acquire or give a better title than that which general duties of the holder the person from whom he took it had.
39. (1) where a bill is payable after when (3) a bill payable on demand' is deemed sight, presentment for acceptance is presentment to be overdue within the meaning and for for acceptance necessary in order to fix the maturity of the is necessary.
the purposes of this section, when it appears instrument.
on the face of it to have been in circulation for an unreasonable length of time.
what is (2) where a bill expressly stipulates that an unreasonable length of time, for this it shall be presented for acceptance, or purpose is a question of fact.
where a, bill is drawn payable elsewhere than at the residence or place of business of the (4) except where an indorsement bears drawee, it must be presented for acceptance date after the maturity of the bill, every before it can be presented for payment.
negotiation is prima facie deemed to have been effected before the bill was overdue.
(3) in no other case is presentment for acceptance necessary in order to render (5) where a bill which is not overdue has liable any party to the bill.
been dishonoured, any person who takes it with notice of the dishonour takes it subject (4) where the holder of a bill, drawn to any defect of title attaching thereto at the payable elsewhere than at the place of time of dishonour, but nothing in this business or residence of the drawee, has not subsection shall affect the rights of a holder time, with the exercise of reasonable in due course.
diligence, to present the bill for acceptance before presenting it for payment on the day negotiation of 37.
where a bill is negotiated back to that it falls due, the delay caused by bill to party the drawer, or to a prior indorser, or to the presenting the bill for acceptance before already liable acceptor, such party may, subject to the presenting it for payment is excused, and thereon.
provisions of this ordinance, reissue and does not discharge the drawer and further negotiate the bill, but he is not indorsers.
iv/169 cap.92] bills of exchange time for .40.
(i) subject to the provisions of this person or a person not having presenting bill ordinance, when a bill payable after sight is capacity to contract by bill; payable after negotiated, the holder must either present it sight.
(b) where, after the exercise of for acceptance or negotiate it within a reasonable diligence, such reasonable time.
presentment cannot be effected ; (2) if he do not do so, the drawer and all (c) where, although the presentment has indorsers prior to that holder are been irregular, acceptance has been discharged.
refused on some other ground.
(3) in determining what is a reasonable (3) the fact that the holder has reason to time within the meaning of this section, believe that the bill, on presentment, will be regard shall be had to the nature of the bill, dishonoured does not excuse presentment.
the usage of the trade with respect to similar bills, and the facts of the particular case.
42. (1) when a bill is duly presented for non- acceptance, and is not accepted within the acceptance rules 41.
(1) a bill is duly presented for after regarding acceptance which is presented in accordance customary time, the person presenting it customary presentment with the following rules;— must treat it as dishonoured by non- time.
for acceptance, acceptance.
if he do not, the holder shall and excuses for non-presentment.
(a) the presentment must be made by or lose his right of recourse against the drawer on behalf of the holder to the and indorsers.
drawee or to some person authorized to accept or refuse (2) where the day on which a bill should acceptance on his behalf at a be accepted is a bank holiday, the bill shall reasonable hour on a business day be accepted on the succeeding business day.
and before the bit! is overdue ; 43.
(1) a bill is dishonoured by dishonour by (b) where a bill is addressed to two or non-acceptance— non-acceptance more drawees, who are not and its consequences.
partners, presentment must be (a) when it is duly presented for made to them all, unless one has acceptance, and such an acceptance authority to accept for all, then as is prescribed by this ordinance is presentment may be made to him refused or cannot be obtained ; or only; (b) when presentment for acceptance is (c) where the drawee is dead excused and the bill is not accepted.
presentment may be made to his personal representative; (2) subject to the provisions of this ordinance, when a bill is dishonoured by (d) where the drawee is insolvent or non-acceptance, an immediate right of bankrupt, presentment may be recourse against the drawer and indorsers made to him or to his assignee or accrues to the holder, and no presentment trustee; for payment is necessary, (e) where authorized by agreement or usage, a presentment through the 44.
(1) the holder of a bill may refuse duties as to post office is sufficient; to take a qualified acceptance, and if he qualified acceptances.
does not obtain an unqualified acceptance (f) where the day on which a bill should may treat the bill as dishonoured by be presented is a bank holiday, the non-acceptance.
bill shall be presented on the succeeding business day.
* (2) where a qualified acceptance is taken, and the drawer or an indorser has not (2) presentment in accordance with these expressly or impliedly authorized the holder rules is excused and a bill may be treated as to take a qualified acceptance, or does not dishonoured by non-acceptance— subsequently assent thereto, such drawer or - (ff) where the drawee is dead, insolvent, indorser is discharged from his liability on or bankrupt, or is a fictitious the bill.
iv/170