cap.92] bills of exchange otherwise provides, interest runs from the provided that— date of the bill, and if the bill is undated, (i)
where the holder in good faith and by from the issue thereof.
mistake inserts a wrong date, and (4) where.
a bill is expressed to be (ii) in every case where a wrong date is payable with interest, unless the instrument inserted, if the bill subsequently comes into otherwise provides, the interest shall be at the hands of a holder in due course the bill the rate of mneper centum per annum : shall not be avoided thereby, but shall operate and be payable as if the date so provided that the amount recoverable on inserted had been the true date.
account of interest or arrears of interest shall in no case exceed the principal.
13. (1) where a bill or an acceptance presumption as bill payable on 10.
(1) a bill is payable on demand— or any , i , n , dors , emen , t on a bill , is dated, , th , e t t o r u e d a d t a e t e b .
eing demand.
date shall, unless the contrary be proved, be (a) which is expressed to be payable on deemed to be the true date of the drawing, demand, or at sight, or on acceptance, or indorsement, as the case may presentation ; or be.
(2) a bill is not invalid by reason only (b) in which no time for payment is that it is antedated or postdated, or that it expressed.
bears date on a sunday.
14.
where a bill is not payable on computation (2) where a bill is accepted or indorsed demand, the day on which it falls due is oftlmeof when it is overdue, it shall, as regards the payment.
determined as follows :— acceptor who so accepts, or any indorser who so indorses it, be deemed a bill payable (1) three days, called days of grace, are, on demand.
in every case where the bill itself does not otherwise provide, added bill payable at 11. (1) a bill is payable at a to the time of payment as fixed by a future time.
determinable future time within the meaning the bill, and the bill is due and of this ordinance which is expressed to be payable on the last day of grace : payable— * provided that— (a) at a fixed period after date or sight ; (a) when the last day of grace falls on a day appointed to be a (b) on or at a fixed period after the public holiday by or under occurrence of a specified event any law for the time being in which is certain to happen, though force, the bill is, except in the the time of happening may be case hereinafter provided for, uncertain.
due and payable on the preceding business day ; (2) an instrument expressed to be (b) when the last day of grace is a payable on a contingency is not a bill, and bank holiday, or when the last the happening of the event does not cure the day of grace is a sunday and defect.
the second day of grace is a bank holiday, the bill is due omission of 12.
where a bill expressed to be payable and payable on the succeeding date in bill at a fixed period after date is issued payable after business day.
undated, or where the acceptance of a bill date, or acceptance payable at a fixed period after sight is (2) where a bill is payable at a fixed after sight.
undated, any holder may insert therein the period after date, after sight, or true date of issue or acceptance, and the bill after the happening of a specified shall be payable accordingly : event, the time of payment is * the changes made to the proviso to section 14 (1) have been necessitated by the provisions of section 3 of the holidays act (no. 29 of 1971) — reproduced in this edition as chapter 364 — which materially differs from the now repealed holidays ordinance.
no. 1 of 1928, reproduced as chapter 135 in volume iii of the 1938 edition of the legislative enactments.
iv/164