bills of exchange (amendment)
1 l. d.- o. 10/2024 an act to amend the bills of exchange ordinance (chapter 82) be it enacted by the parliament of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka as follows: -
1. this act may be cited as the bills of exchange short title (amendment) act, no. of 2024.
5 2.
the bills of exchange ordinance (chapter 82) general (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby amendment amended by the substitution for the word “ceylon”, wherever to chapter 82 that word occurs in the principal enactment, of the words “sri lanka”.
10 3. section 2 of the principal enactment is hereby amended amendment as follows: - of section 2 of the principal (1) by the substitution for the definition of the enactment expression “banker”, of the following definition: - ““banker” means a licensed commercial bank or a 15 licensed specialised bank or a branch of a foreign bank incorporated outside sri lanka, which carries on the business of banking within the meaning of the banking act, no.30 of 1988;”; and 20 (2) by the insertion immediately after the definition of the expression “delivery”, of the following new definitions:- ““electronic means” shall mean any method by which information is generated, sent, received 25 or stored by electronic, magnetic, optical, or any other similar capacity regardless of the medium; 2 bills of exchange (amendment) “facsimile transmission” means transmitting a written, printed, or pictorial document over the telephone system by scanning it photoelectrically and reproducing the image 5 thereof after transmission;”.
4. section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amended amendment of section 9 in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitution for the of the words “shall be at the rate of nine per centum per annum:”, principal of the words “shall be the legal rate applicable for the time enactment 10 being:”.
5. section 14 of the principal enactment is hereby amendment of section 14 amended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and of the the substitution therefor, of the following subsection: - principal enactment “(1) the bill is due and payable in all cases on the 15 last day of the time of payment as fixed by the bill, or if that is a non-business day, on the succeeding business day.”.
6. section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby repeal of repealed.
section 15 of the principal enactment 20 7. section 35 of the principal enactment is hereby amendment amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution of section 35 of the for all the words from “if a bill be indorsed-” to the end of principal that subsection, of the following words: - enactment “if a bill be indorsed “pay d only”, “pay d for the 25 account of x” or “pay d or order for collection”.”.