10 bills of exchange (amendment) (b) where the cheque is presented for payment by the payee or holder in due course of the cheque to the branch of the drawee bank, the 5 branch of the drawee bank in which the drawer maintains the account, is situated.
conclusive 82d.
the following shall be treated as evidence conclusive evidence of a cheque dishonoured of a 10 dishonoured due to the insufficiency of funds in the account cheque.
of the drawer: - (a) the cheque return notification issued by the collecting bank; (b) the deposit slip acknowledged by 15 the collecting bank; or (c) the cheque returned by the drawee bank.
presumption 82e.
it shall be presumed unless the contrary in favour of is proved, that the payee or holder in due course the payee or 20 of the cheque received the cheque for the holder in due course of the discharge, in whole or in part, of any debt or cheque.
other liability of the drawer.
offences by 82f.
where a body of persons is convicted a body of for an offence under this ordinance, then – persons.
25 (a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every director, manager, or secretary of that body corporate at the time of the commission of such offence; bills of exchange (amendment) 11 (b) if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of that firm at the time of the commission of such offence; and (c) if that body of persons is an 5 unincorporated body, every individual who is a member of such unincorporated body at the time of the commission of such offence, shall be deemed to have committed that offence: 10 provided however, any director, manager or secretary of such body corporate or any partner of such firm or any individual of such unincorporated body shall not be deemed to have committed such offence if he proves to 15 the satisfaction of the court that such offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.”.
17.
section 83 of the principal enactment is hereby amendment 20 amended by the repeal of all the words from “for the purpose of section 83 of the of this section” to the end of that section.
principal enactment 18.
in the event of any inconsistency between the sinhala sinhala text and tamil texts of this act, the sinhala text shall prevail.
to prevail in case of inconsistency 12 bills of exchange (amendment) department of government printing