4 bills of exchange (amendment) (i) the serial number of the cheque; (ii) the code which identifies the banker and the branch on 5 whom the cheque is drawn; (iii) the account number of the drawer of the cheque; (iv) the amount for which the cheque is drawn, as entered by 10 the drawer of the cheque; and (v) any other matter as may from time to time be prescribed by regulation made under any written law relating to 15 payment, clearing and settlement systems. (5) the provisions of subsection (4) of section 52 shall not apply – (a) to the presentment of a cheque for payment 20 under subsection (4); and (b) to a cheque which is paid following presentment under subsection (4). (6) where a cheque is presented for payment by a banker under subsection (4), the provisions of 25 section 45 shall not be construed as being applicable and requiring the presentment to be made at the proper place or at a reasonable hour on a business day. bills of exchange (amendment) 5 (7) for the purpose of this section, where the image of a cheque, or one or more of its electronic payment information presented is inaccurate, such presentation shall be a nullity.”. 5 11. section 76 of the principal enactment is hereby replacement repealed and the following section is substituted therefor:- of section 76 of the principal “general and 76. (1) where a cheque bears across its face enactment special an addition of two parallel transverse lines, crossings either with or without the words “not defined. 10 negotiable”, that addition constitutes a crossing, and the cheque is crossed generally. (2) where a cheque bears across its face an addition of the name of a banker, either with or without the words “not negotiable”, that 15 addition constitutes a crossing, and the cheque is crossed specially and to that banker.”. 12. section 77 of the principal enactment is hereby amendment amended as follows: - of section 77 of the principal (1) by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section and enactment 20 the substitution therefor, of the following subsection: - “(4) where a cheque is crossed generally or specially, the holder may add the words, “not negotiable”.”; and 25 (2) in subsection (6) of that section, by the substitution for the words “to himself.”, of the words “to himself and such crossing for the purpose of collection may be placed either on the face or the rear of the cheque.”.