2 bills of exchange (amendment) “facsimile transmission” means transmitting a written, printed, or pictorial document over the telephone system by scanning it photoelectrically and reproducing the image 5 thereof after transmission;”.
4. section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amended amendment of section 9 in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitution for the of the words “shall be at the rate of nine per centum per annum:”, principal of the words “shall be the legal rate applicable for the time enactment 10 being:”.
5. section 14 of the principal enactment is hereby amendment of section 14 amended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and of the the substitution therefor, of the following subsection: - principal enactment “(1) the bill is due and payable in all cases on the 15 last day of the time of payment as fixed by the bill, or if that is a non-business day, on the succeeding business day.”.
6. section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby repeal of repealed.
section 15 of the principal enactment 20 7. section 35 of the principal enactment is hereby amendment amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution of section 35 of the for all the words from “if a bill be indorsed-” to the end of principal that subsection, of the following words: - enactment “if a bill be indorsed “pay d only”, “pay d for the 25 account of x” or “pay d or order for collection”.”.
bills of exchange (amendment) 3 8. section 49 of the principal enactment is hereby amendment amended by the repeal of subsection (5) of that section and of section 49 of the the substitution therefor, of the following subsection: - principal enactment “(5) the notice may be given in writing or by 5 personal communication, or by facsimile transmission or other electronic means which sufficiently identify the bill, and intimate that the bill has been dishonoured by non- acceptance or non-payment.”.
10 9. section 64 of the principal enactment is hereby amendment amended in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution of section 64 of the for the words “any alteration of the date,”, of the words “any principal alteration of the name of the payee, the date,”.
enactment 10.
section 74 of the principal enactment is hereby amendment 15 amended by the addition immediately after subsection (3) of section 74 of the of that section, of the following new subsections: - principal enactment “(4) (a) a banker may, instead of presenting the cheque itself for payment, present a cheque by facsimile transmission or other 20 electronic means for payment to the banker on whom it is drawn, by transmitting an image thereof along with the stipulated electronic payment information of the cheque.
25 (b) for the purposes of this subsection – (i) the image of a cheque shall comprise the front view and the back view of the cheque; and (ii) the electronic payment information 30 of a cheque shall comprise –