Securities and Exchange Commission of 45
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
53. (1) It shall be a defence to a person in any civil or Defences in
criminal proceedings to prove that in discharging his duties criminal or civil
liability
by virtue of delegation of powers under the default rules of
a licensed clearing house in connection with any default
proceeding in respect of anything done or omitted to be
done that he exercised reasonable care and acted in good
faith in the course of or in connection with the discharge or
purported discharge of that duty.
(2) The person referred to in subsection (1) shall
include –
(a) any member of the board of directors of the person;
and
(b) any member of any committee established by such
person.
(3) Where a relevant office holder takes action in relation
to any property of any defaulter which is liable to be dealt
with in accordance with the default rules of a licensed clearing
house, and where the relevant office holder reasonably
believes or has reasonable grounds for believing that he is
entitled to take that action, the relevant office holder shall
not be liable to any person for any loss or damage resulting
from any action of the relevant office holder unless such
loss or damage was caused by the negligence of the relevant
office holder.
CHAPTER 3
CENTRAL DEPOSITORY
54. (1) A person shall not establish, operate or maintain Prohibition
a central depository for handling of securities, without against
obtaining a licence from the Commission whether such operating an
unlicensed
securities are listed or not listed on an exchange.
central
depository
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of
subsection (1), commits an offence and shall on conviction
46 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding twenty five million rupees or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding five years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(3) Subsection (1) shall not apply to-
(a) a central depository operated or established by the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka;
(b) a central depository operated in respect of securities
issued by the Government of Sri Lanka or the Central
Bank of Sri Lanka; or
(c) any person providing a Central Depository for any
issue of securities which have been exempted by
the Commission.
Application to 55. (1) An application for a licence to establish or
operate a central operate a central depository shall be made to the Commission
depository
in such manner and form as may be specified by the
Commission and shall be accompanied by such fee as may
be prescribed.
(2) An application for a licence to establish or operate a
central depository shall only be made by a body corporate.
(3) The central depository shall make rules which have
satisfactory provisions with regard to –
(a) conditions under which securities may be deposited,
held by, withdrawn from or transferred to and
recorded in the register of securities;
(b) the processing of dealings in deposited securities;
(c) facilitating the settlement of deposited securities;
Securities and Exchange Commission of 47
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(d) the protection of the interests of account holders
and the protection and control of information on
deposited securities and dealings therein;
(e) transparent and non discriminatory criteria for the
admission of depository participants and the
categories of depository participants;
(f) the monitoring and supervision of depository
participants and for the enforcement of the rules of
the applicant company;
(g) the expulsion, suspension, imposition of penalties
or disciplining of depository participants for failure
to comply with the rules of the central depository;
(h) the settlement of disputes between the central
depository and the depository participants and
between depository participants; and
(i) ensuring the segregation of the securities belonging
to investors from those of the depository
participants.
(4) An applicant under subsection (1) shall provide such
information as the Commission considers necessary in
relation to the application.
(5) The proposed central depository shall at all times have
sufficient financial, human and other resources to ensure the
provision of –
(a) adequately and properly equipped premises for the
conduct of its business;
(b) competent personnel for the conduct of its business;
and
(c) automated systems with adequate capacity, security
arrangements and facilities to mitigate risks and to
meet emergencies.
48 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(6) Where the Commission is satisfied that it is appropriate
to do so in the public interest or for the proper regulation of
the securities market, it may, grant a licence to the applicant
to establish or operate a central depository subject to such
terms or conditions as the Commission thinks fit.
(7) Without limiting the generality of the terms and
conditions attached to the licence referred to in subsection
(6), the Commission, may amend or revoke any of the terms
and conditions imposed or impose new terms and conditions,
if the Commission is satisfied that it is appropriate to do so
in the interest of the investors, or for the proper regulation of
a central depository.
Duties of a 56. (1) A central depository shall –
central
depository
(a) operate a safe, effective and efficient system for the
handling of securities;
(b) manage any risks associated with its business and
operations prudently; and
(c) act in the public interest having particular regard
to the need for the protection of account holders.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other written
law, it shall be the duty of a director of a central depository
to act at all times in the public interest having particular
regard to the need for the protection of account holders, and
where there is a conflict between such duty and a director’s
duty under the provisions of any other written law the duty
under this Act shall prevail.
Cancellation of a 57. (1) The Commission may by notice in writing -
licence of a
central
(a) cancel the licence granted under section 55 with
depository
effect from the date specified in the notice; or
Securities and Exchange Commission of 49
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(b) direct the central depository to cease to provide or
operate such facilities, or to cease to provide such
services, as are specified in the notice, with effect
from the date specified in the notice.
(2) The Commission shall not cancel a licence or issue a
directive under subsection (1), unless the Commission is
satisfied that it is appropriate to do so for the protection of
investors or in the public interest or for the proper regulation
of the securities market where any of the following
circumstances occur: -
(a) the central depository ceases to operate a system
for the central handling of securities;
(b) the central depository is being wound up or
otherwise dissolved, whether within or outside Sri
Lanka;
(c) the central depository has contravened any term or
condition of its licence or is charged with any
offence under this Act;
(d) the central depository has failed to comply with a
condition, requirement or directive that is issued
under this Act;
(e) any information provided for the purposes of section
55 was false or misleading in a material particular
or from which there is a material omission;
(f) a judgment debt against the central depository has
not been satisfied in whole or in part;
(g) a receiver, a receiver and manager, liquidator or an
equivalent person has been appointed, whether
within or outside Sri Lanka, in relation to or in
respect of any property of the central depository;
50 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(h) the central depository has, whether within or outside
Sri Lanka, entered into a compromise or scheme of
arrangement with its creditors; or
(i) the central depository has on its own accord applied
to the Commission to cancel the licence granted to
it and the Commission, thinks it fit to do so.
(3) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of subsection (2),
the central depository shall be deemed to have ceased to
operate a system for the central handling of securities if it
has ceased to operate such system for a period exceeding
two weeks without obtaining the prior written approval of
the Commission.
(4) Notwithstanding the cancellation of a licence or the
issuance of a directive under subsection (1), the Commission
may permit the central depository to continue, on or after
the date on which the cancellation or directive is to take
effect, to carry on such activities affected by the cancellation
or directive as the Commission may specify in the notice–
(a) for the purpose of closing down the operations of
the central depository or ceasing to provide the
services specified in the notice;
(b) for the purpose of protecting the depositors; or
(c) in the public interest.
(5) Where the Commission acts under subsection (1), the
Commission may where it deems necessary appoint an
interim board of directors for a period of six months and be
extended for a period of one year to manage the affairs of the
central depository until a new board of directors is appointed.
(6) Where the Commission has granted permission to the
central depository under subsection (4), the central
depository shall not, by reason of its carrying on the activities
Securities and Exchange Commission of 51
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
in accordance with the permission, be regarded as having
contravened subsection (1).
(7) The Commission shall not take any action under
subsection (1) without giving the central depository an
opportunity of being heard.
(8) A central depository which is aggrieved by the decision
of the Commission made under subsection (1) may, within
fourteen days after the central depository is notified of the
decision, appeal to the Minister.
(9) Notwithstanding the making of an appeal under
subsection (8), any action taken by the Commission under
this section shall continue to have effect pending the decision
of the Minister.
(10) The Minister may, on an appeal made under
subsection (8)-
(a) allow the appeal and direct the Commission to
revoke the cancellation of the licence or the
directive; or
(b) disallow the appeal.
(11) The Commission shall give effect to the decision of
the Minister.
(12) Subject to subsection (11), the Commission shall
give public notice of any cancellation of the licence or any
directive issued under this section.
58. Any cancellation of a licence or the issuance of a
Effect of
directive under subsection (1) of section 57 shall not operate cancellation of
so as to – licence of a
central
depository
(a) avoid or affect any agreement, transaction or
arrangement entered into by the central depository,
52 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
whether the agreement, transaction or arrangement
was entered into before or, where subsection (4) of
section 57 applies after the cancellation of the
licence or issuance of the directive under subsection
(1) of section 57; or
(b) affect any right, obligation or liability arising under
such agreement, transaction or arrangement.
Securities 59. A central depository may establish different types
account of securities accounts and every such securities account
opened with a central depository shall be in the name of the
beneficial owner of the deposited securities or in the name
of a nominee. Where a securities account is opened in the
name of a nominee, the name of the beneficial owner shall
be disclosed to the central depository by the person opening
such account.
Book entry 60. All dealings of securities held in a central depository
securities lodged shall be made by means of book entries in the accounts of
with the central
the central depository without the physical delivery of scrips.
depository
Record of entry 61. A record of an entry in an account maintained by
in depositor’s the central depository shall be prima facie evidence of the
account
authenticity of such matter.
Effect of 62. (1) Where the central depository holds securities in
securities held in trust for its holders of securities, the person for whose benefit
trust by the those securities are held in trust-
central
depository
(a) shall be deemed to be the holder of such securities;
and
(b) shall in respect of those securities, enjoy all such
rights and privileges and be subject to all such
duties and obligations in respect of, or arising from,
such securities, under the Companies Act, No. 7 of
2007 as the case may be, as if he is the holder of
those securities.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 53
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(2) The rights and duties attached to the securities
maintained in the accounts of the central depository held by
a nominee shall be exercised by the beneficial owner
identified in the respective account held in the central
depository as if he is the holder of those securities.
(3) The appointment of a receiver, a receiver or manager,
liquidator or any equivalent person in respect of any
insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings of a depository
participant shall not affect the rights of holders of securities
held in trust by the central depository of that depository
participant.
63. Any registration of securities by the central Validation
depository prior to the enactment of this Act shall not be
invalid only for the reason that such registration has been
done other than in accordance with the provisions of this
Act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder.
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
64. (1) The rules of a market institution shall be approved Rules of a
by the Commission and such approved rules shall operate as market
institution
a binding contract-
(a) between the market institution and each issuer of
securities;
(b) between the market institution and each trading
participant, clearing member or depository
participant as the case may be;
(c) between each issuer of securities and each trading
participant; and
(d) between trading participants, clearing members or
depository participants.
