12 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
CHAPTER 4
DIRECTOR-GENERAL AND THE STAFF OF THE COMMISSION
Director-General 19. (1) The Minister shall on the recommendation of
the Commission, appoint a Director-General of the
Commission, who shall be its chief executive officer. The
conditions of employment including remuneration of the
Director-General shall be determined by the Commission.
(2) The Commission shall not recommend the
appointment of any person as the Director-General of the
Commission, if such person-
(a) has been previously found guilty of serious
misconduct by a court or tribunal or has been subject
to a disciplinary action by a regulatory body;
(b) has been previously dismissed from office; or
(c) has committed a breach of the provisions of this
Act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder.
(3) The Director-General shall, subject to the general
direction and control of the Commission, be charged with
the direction of the affairs and transactions of the
Commission, the exercise, discharge and performance of its
powers, functions and duties, and the administration and
control of the officers and servants of the Commission.
(4) The Director-General may, with the approval of the
Commission, whenever he considers it necessary to do so,
delegate to any officer and servant any power, function or
duty conferred or imposed on or assigned to him by this Act
and such officer or servant shall exercise, discharge and
perform such power, function or duty subject to the general
or special directions of the Director-General.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 13
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(5) The Minister may on the recommendation of the
Commission remove the Director-General appointed under
subsection (1), from office if his continuation in office is
detrimental to the interests of the Commission:
Provided, that the Commission shall grant an opportunity
to the Director-General of being heard, prior to such
removal.
20. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any Staff of the
Commission
other written law, the Commission may create cadre positions
and employ officers and servants as it considers necessary
for the efficient discharge of its functions and may fix their
salaries and wages or other remuneration, benefits and
pensions of such servants and officers for the purposes of
carrying out its functions and duties under the provisions of
this Act.
(2) The Commission may establish and regulate pension
and provident funds and schemes for the benefit of the
Director-General and its officers and servants and their
dependents and nominees with the concurrence of the
Minister assigned the subject of finance and may make
contributions to any such fund or scheme.
(3) The Commission shall promote and sponsor the
training of technical personnel on the subjects of securities
markets, finance, law, money economics and other subjects
and for this purpose, the Commission shall be authorised to
defray the costs of study, in Sri Lanka or abroad of the officers
and servants of the Commission who are of proven merit as
determined by the Commission.
14 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(4) The Commission shall establish a code of conduct
which shall be applicable to the officers and servants of the
Commission.
(5) The Commission shall not appoint any person to the
staff of the Commission where such person-
(a) has been previously found guilty of serious
misconduct by a court or tribunal or has been subject
to a disciplinary action by a regulatory body;
(b) has been previously dismissed from office; or
(c) has committed a breach of the provisions of this
Act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder.
(6) At the request of the Commission any officer in the
public service may, with the consent of the officer and the
Public Service Commission established by the Constitution
be temporarily appointed to the Commission for such period
as may be determined by the Commission or with like
consent, be permanently appointed to such staff.
(7) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Commission, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.
(8) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Commission, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.
(9) Where the Commission employs any person who has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, any
period of service to the Commission by that person shall be
regarded as service to the Government for the purpose of
discharging the obligations of such agreement.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 15
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(10) The Commission may with the consent of such officer
or servant propose secondment of its officers or servants to
other state institutions or regulatory authorities in Sri Lanka
or abroad for a period not exceeding three years on an
assignment agreed upon between such institution or the
authority and the Commission. The period of secondment
shall be deemed to be considered as service to the
Commission.
21. (1) At the request of the Commission any officer or Appointment of
officers of
servant of a public corporation may, with the consent of
public
such officer or servant and the governing board of such corporations to
the staff of the
corporation, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Commission
Commission for such period as may be determined by the
Commission or with like consent be permanently appointed
to the staff of the Commission on such terms and conditions,
including those relating to pension or provident fund rights,
as may be agreed upon by the Commission and the governing
board of such corporation.
(2) Where any person is appointed whether temporarily
or permanently under subsection (1) to the staff of the
Commission he shall be subject to the same disciplinary
control as any other officers or servants of the Commission.
22. All members, the Director General, officers and Members,
officers and
servants of the Commission shall be deemed to be public
servants of the
servants within the meaning and for the purposes of the Commission
deemed to be
Penal Code (Chapter 19) and of the Code of Criminal
public servants
Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979.
16 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
Commission 23. The Commission shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
deemed to be a Institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act (Chapter
Scheduled
26), and the provisions of that Act shall be construed
Institution
within the accordingly.
meaning of the
Bribery Act PART II
Markets and Market Institutions
Object and 24. The object and purpose of this Part shall be –
purpose of this
Part
(a) to promote a fair, orderly, transparent and efficient
securities market in Sri Lanka through the
establishment of market institutions;
(b) to enhance effective and efficient functioning of a
securities market; and
(c) to mitigate systemic risk associated with securities
markets.
CHAPTER 1
EXCHANGES
Prohibition 25. (1) A person shall not establish, operate or maintain
against an exchange except by authority of a licence granted by the
establishing an Commission.
unlicensed
exchange
(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and shall, on conviction, after summary trial before
a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty-five
million rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Application to 26. (1) An application for a licence to operate as an
operate an exchange shall be made to the Commission in such manner
exchange
and form together with such documents as may be specified
by rules made by the Commission accompanied by such
fees as may be prescribed.
