94 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(b) to facilitate the disclosure of information relating
to unlisted securities to local and overseas investors
through a recognised market operator in a
transparent manner.
CHAPTER 1
ESTABLISHMENT OF A RECOGNISED MARKET OPERATOR
Establishment of 117. A person shall not act as a market operator under
a market this Part unless such person is registered with the
operator Commission or exempted from such registration by the
Commission.
Requirement to 118. (1) For the purposes of section 117, the Commission
register a market may upon application made by a person, register the person
operator as a recognised market operator or exempt from such
registration subject to any terms and conditions as the
Commission considers necessary.
(2) The Commission may exempt a market operator from
registration under section 117 having regard to the criteria
specified under section 119 subject to such terms and
conditions as may be specified by the Commission.
(3) The Commission may, from time to time, vary, amend
or revoke any terms and conditions imposed under
subsection (1).
(4) The Commission may notwithstanding the exemption
granted under subsection (2), withdraw such exemption and
may require such person to be registered if the Commission
deems it necessary in the interests of investors.
Application for 119. (1) An application to be registered as a recognised
registration market operator shall be accompanied by such documents
and information and in such form as the Commission may
specify by rules.
(2) An application by such person for registration under
this section shall provide documents to prove that such
person has experience in trades executed on a platform to
the satisfaction of the Commission.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 95
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(3) An application by such person for registration under
this Chapter shall provide documents to prove that the
arrangements are made by such platform for the clearance
and settlement of the trades executed on the platform to the
satisfaction of the Commission.
CHAPTER 2
ROLE OF A RECOGNISED MARKET OPERATOR
120. The functions and duties of a recognised market Functions and
operator shall be- duties of a
recognized
market operator
(a) to provide a platform for the sale and purchase of
unlisted securities in Sri Lanka;
(b) to provide information relating to unlisted securities
in Sri Lanka to the local and international financial
community;
(c) to provide criteria for admission and regulatory
standards of its trading members;
(d) to comply with any directive issued by the
Commission, whether of a general or specific nature;
and
(e) to provide such assistance to the Commission, or to
a person acting on behalf of or with the authority of
the Commission, as the Commission or such person
reasonably requires.
121. Any person buying and selling securities on a Trading on a
platform shall execute their orders through trading members platform
admitted by the platform.
122. The Commission may make rules or require the Rules to be
market operator to make rules subject to the approval of the made by the
Commission or
Commission -
the market
operator
