16 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
Commission 23. The Commission shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
deemed to be a Institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act (Chapter
Scheduled
26), and the provisions of that Act shall be construed
Institution
within the accordingly.
meaning of the
Bribery Act PART II
Markets and Market Institutions
Object and 24. The object and purpose of this Part shall be –
purpose of this
Part
(a) to promote a fair, orderly, transparent and efficient
securities market in Sri Lanka through the
establishment of market institutions;
(b) to enhance effective and efficient functioning of a
securities market; and
(c) to mitigate systemic risk associated with securities
markets.
CHAPTER 1
EXCHANGES
Prohibition 25. (1) A person shall not establish, operate or maintain
against an exchange except by authority of a licence granted by the
establishing an Commission.
unlicensed
exchange
(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and shall, on conviction, after summary trial before
a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty-five
million rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Application to 26. (1) An application for a licence to operate as an
operate an exchange shall be made to the Commission in such manner
exchange
and form together with such documents as may be specified
by rules made by the Commission accompanied by such
fees as may be prescribed.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 17
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), an application shall
be made by a body corporate only.
(3) The Commission may grant a licence to the applicant
to operate as an exchange, subject to such terms and
conditions as it thinks fit, where it is satisfied that –
(a) the applicant has the capacity to operate an orderly
and fair market in relation to securities that are
traded through its facilities;
(b) the applicant has the necessary infrastructure to
manage any risks associated with its business and
operations prudently;
(c) the applicant, in discharging its obligations under
paragraph (a), shall have the necessary governance
structures to ensure that the exchange shall not act
contrary to public interest;
(d) the applicant has sufficient financial, human,
automated systems and other resources to ensure
the provision of –
(i) an orderly and fair market in relation to
securities that are traded through its facilities;
(ii) adequate and properly equipped premises for
the conduct of its business;
(iii) competent personnel for the conduct of its
business; and
(iv) automated systems with adequate capacity,
security arrangements and facilities to
manage risks and to meet emergencies;
(e) that the applicant, by rules provide-
18 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(i) for an orderly and fair market in relation to
the securities that are traded through its
facilities;
(ii) for the admission of trading participants;
(iii) for the proper regulation and supervision of
the business conduct of its trading
participants when dealing with clients;
(iv) for the exclusion of persons who are not of
good character and high business integrity
from being recognized as trading participants;
(v) for the expulsion, suspension or disciplining
including the imposition of fines on a trading
participant and any person acting on behalf
of such trading participant, for conduct that
is inconsistent with just and equitable
principles in the transaction of business or
for a contravention of or failure to comply
with the rules of the exchange or any
provisions of this Act, regulations, rules or
directives made thereunder;
(vi) for the conditions under which securities may
be listed or delisted;
(vii) for the conditions governing trading of such
listed securities and rules to be followed by
companies or other entities that have listed
their securities on the exchange;
(viii) for the class or classes of securities that may
be dealt in or traded on its facilities;
(ix) for the prohibition of market misconduct and
the manner in which investigations are
conducted;
Securities and Exchange Commission of 19
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(x) for the conduct of inquiries or investigations
into the business conduct of its trading
participants;
(xi) for the suspension of trading of any given
security for the protection of investors or for
the conduct of orderly and fair trading;
(xii) for the appointment of a disciplinary
committee of which the majority of its
members are independent of the trading
participants or the exchange, to hear and
determine disputes-
(A) between trading participants and their
clients;
(B) between trading participants;
(C) between trading participants and an
exchange, a central depository or a
licensed clearing house;
(D) between entities listed on the exchange
and the exchange;
(xiii) generally for the carrying on of the business
of the exchange with due regard to the need
for the protection of investors; and
(f) the interests of the public or the proper regulation
of the market shall be served by the granting of the
licence.
(4) An applicant under subsection (1) shall provide such
additional information as the Commission may require in
relation to the application.
20 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3), the
Commission may amend, revoke or impose additional terms
or conditions, if the Commission is satisfied that it is
appropriate to do so for the protection of investors or for the
proper regulation of the securities market.
Duties of an 27. (1) It shall be the duty of an exchange to ensure, an
exchange orderly and fair market in securities that are traded through
its facilities.
(2) In performing its duty under subsection (1), the
exchange shall-
(a) act in the public interest having particular regard
to the need for the protection of investors;
(b) ensure that where any interest that is required to be
served under any law relating to companies conflict
with the interest referred to in paragraph (a), the
interest referred to in paragraph (a) shall prevail;
and
(c) manage any risks associated with its business and
operations prudently.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, a
director of an exchange has a duty to act at all times in the
public interest having particular regard to the need to protect
investors and where there is a conflict between the duty
under this Act and a director’s duty under any other law, the
duty under this Act shall prevail.
(4) It shall be the duty of the exchange to take appropriate
action as may be provided for under its rules for the purpose
of monitoring or securing compliance with its rules.
(5) An exchange shall immediately notify the
Commission if it becomes aware of -
Securities and Exchange Commission of 21
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(a) any matter which adversely affects, or is likely to
adversely affect the ability of any trading
participant to meet its obligations in respect of its
licensed business, including the ability of any
trading participant to comply with the minimum
financial requirements as may be specified under
this Act or regulations, rules or directives made
thereunder; or
(b) any irregularity, breach of any provision of this
Act, regulations, rules, directives or any other matter
which, in the opinion of the exchange, indicates or
may indicate that the financial standing or financial
integrity of any trading participant or of the chief
executive officer or directors or the key management
personnel of the trading participant in question may
reasonably be affected.
(6) Where an exchange issues a warning, imposes a
penalty, suspends, expels or imposes any other disciplinary
measure against any of its trading participants, on the
occurrence of activities referred to in subsection (5), it shall,
within seven days, give to the Commission in writing the
following particulars :-
(a) the name and address of the business of the trading
participant;
(b) the reason for and the nature of the action taken;
(c) the period of suspension and the quantum of the
penalty, if any; and
(d) any other disciplinary measure taken.
28. (1) The Commission may, - Cancellation of
licence of an
exchange
(a) by notice in writing cancel the licence granted
under section 26 with effect from the date specified
in such notice; or
22 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(b) by notice in writing direct the exchange to cease to
provide or operate such facilities, or to cease to
provide such services, with effect from the date
specified in the notice.
(2) The Commission shall not cancel the licence or issue
a directive under subsection (1) unless the Commission is
satisfied that it is appropriate to do so for the protection of
investors, in the public interest or for the proper regulation
of the securities market, where any of the following
circumstances occur :–
(a) the exchange ceases to operate its securities market;
(b) the exchange is being wound up or otherwise
dissolved, whether within or outside Sri Lanka;
(c) the exchange has contravened any term or condition
of its licence or is charged with any offence under
this Act;
(d) the exchange has failed to comply with a term or
condition of its license or directive issued under
this Act or otherwise fails to comply with any
provision or requirement under this Act;
(e) any information provided for the purposes of section
26, was false or misleading in a material particular
or from which there is a material omission;
(f) a judgment debt against the exchange has not been
satisfied in whole or in part;
(g) a receiver, a receiver and manager, liquidator or
equivalent person has been appointed, whether
within or outside Sri Lanka in relation to or in
respect of any property of the exchange;
Securities and Exchange Commission of 23
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(h) the exchange has, whether within or outside Sri
Lanka, entered into a compromise or scheme of
arrangement with its creditors which has not been
satisfied; or
(i) the exchange on its own accord applies to the
Commission to cancel its licence as an exchange,
and the Commission thinks it fit to do so.
(3) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of subsection (2)
where an exchange has ceased to operate its securities market
for a period exceeding two weeks, it shall be deemed to have
ceased to operate its securities market without obtaining the
prior written approval of the Commission.
(4) Notwithstanding the cancellation of a licence or the
issuance of a directive under subsection (1), the Commission
may permit the exchange to continue, on or after the date on
which the cancellation or directive is to take effect, to carry
on such activities affected by the cancellation or directive
as the Commission may specify in the notice-
(a) for the purpose of closing down the operations of
the exchange or ceasing to provide the services
specified in the notice;
(b) for the purpose of protecting the interest of
investors; or
(c) in the interest of the public.
(5) Where the Commission has granted permission to an
exchange to continue under subsection (4), the exchange
shall not, by reason of its carrying on the activities in
accordance with such permission, be regarded as having
contravened subsection (1).
(6) Where the Commission acts under paragraph (a) of
subsection (1), the Commission may, take any steps deemed
necessary to ensure the protection of investors or to uphold
the interests of the public with notice to the Minister.
24 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(7) The Commission shall not take any action under
subsection (1) without giving the exchange an opportunity
of being heard.
(8) An exchange which is aggrieved by the decision of
the Commission made under subsection (1) may, within
fourteen days of receipt of such notice, appeal to the Minister.
(9) Notwithstanding the making of an appeal under
subsection (8), any action taken by the Commission under
this section shall continue to have effect pending the decision
of the Minister.
(10) The Minister may, on an appeal made under
subsection (8) after hearing the Commission and the
exchange within a period of three months after the receipt of
such appeal -
(a) allow the appeal and direct the Commission to
revoke the cancellation of the licence or the
directive; or
(b) disallow the appeal.
(11) The Commission shall give effect to the decision of
the Minister.
(12) Subject to subsection (11), the Commission shall
give public notice of any cancellation of licence or any
directive issued under this section.
Effect of 29. Any cancellation of a licence or the issuance of a
cancellation of directive under subsection (1) of section 28 shall not operate
the licence of an so as to –
exchange
(a) avoid or affect any agreement, transaction or
arrangement entered into on the securities market
operated by the exchange, whether the agreement,
transaction or arrangement was entered into before
Securities and Exchange Commission of 25
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
or, where subsection (4) of section 28 applies, after
the cancellation of the licence or the issuance of
the directive under section 28; or
(b) affect any right, obligation or liability arising under
such agreement, transaction or arrangement.
30. (1) The Commission may, after consultation with Closure of the
the exchange, direct the exchange to close its securities exchange in an
emergency
market for a period not exceeding five business days if the
Commission is of the opinion that an orderly and fair market
for trading in securities on the securities market is being or
is likely to be prevented because –
(a) an emergency or natural disaster has occurred
within Sri Lanka; or
(b) there exists an economic or financial crisis or any
other similar circumstance within or outside
Sri Lanka.
(2) The Commission may extend the closure of the
securities market under subsection (1) for any further periods,
each not exceeding five business days at a time.
(3) The Commission shall specify the grounds for the
closure in the directive given under subsection (1) and the
grounds for any extension of closure under subsection (2).
(4) The Commission shall, as soon as may be practicable,
give a copy of the directive under subsection (1) or extension
under subsection (2) to the exchange and direct the exchange
to do all that it is reasonably capable of doing to give effect
to the directive under subsection (1) or extension under
subsection (2) while the directive or extension remains
in force.
(5) Where the Commission exercises its power under this
section it shall notify the Minister setting out the reasons for
the exercise of the power under this section.
26 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(6) In this section –
“business day” means any day on which there is official
trading on the exchange but for the closure;
“fair market” includes a market that reflects the forces of
supply and demand.
Listing 31. (1) Where an exchange decides to list its own
requirements of securities on such exchange, it shall obtain the prior approval
a licensed of the Commission and the Ministry of Finance.
exchange
(2) The Commission shall grant approval to the exchange
to list its securities on such exchange on being satisfied that
the exchange has complied with all the necessary listing
requirements of the exchange.
(3) On such approval being granted, such exchange shall
enter into an arrangement as the Commission may require-
(a) for dealing with possible conflicts of interest that
may arise from the listing on such exchange;
(b) for the purpose of ensuring the integrity of trading
of securities of such exchange; and
(c) for compliance with obligations as a listed
company if such exchange was to become a listed
company,
and such exchange shall comply with such requirements.
(4) The listing requirements of such exchange shall be
deemed to allow the Commission, instead of such exchange
to make decisions and to take action, relating to-
(a) the admission to or removal of the exchange from
the official list of such exchange;
(b) the stopping or suspension of the securities of the
exchange from being listed or traded on such
exchange; or
Securities and Exchange Commission of 27
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(c) the continuing listing requirements or such other
matters as the Commission deems fit for the purpose
of subsection (1).
(5) An arrangement under subsection (3) may provide for
the exchange to pay such fees to the Commission as the
Commission may determine for services provided by the
Commission under the arrangement or otherwise.
(6) Without prejudice to the powers of the Commission
to approve or amend the rules of an exchange, the
Commission may by notice in writing-
(a) modify the listing requirements of such exchange
for the purpose of applying for a listing or trading
of the securities of such exchange; or
(b) exempt such exchange from any listing requirement.
CHAPTER 2
CLEARING HOUSE
32. In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise Interpretation
requires –
“central counterparty” means a legal person who engages
in clearing and settlement of trades on a securities
market by becoming the buyer to every seller and
the seller to every buyer by guaranteeing each trade;
“default proceedings” mean any proceedings or other
action taken by a licensed clearing house under its
default rules;
“default rules”, in relation to a licensed clearing house,
mean such rules of the licensed clearing house
which provide for the initiation of default
proceedings if a clearing member has failed to meet
