118 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
PART VI
Finance
Object and 154. The object and purpose of this Part shall be-
purpose of this
Part
(a) to establish various funds for the proper functioning
of the Commission; and
(b) to establish a fund to provide limited compensation
to investors who have no other remedy.
CHAPTER 1
FUNDS OF THE COMMISSION
Levy of a Cess 155. (1) There shall be charged, levied and paid a cess at
such rates as may be prescribed by the Minister by regulations
published in the Gazette on every purchase and sale of
securities recorded in an exchange or notified to it under its
rules by both the purchaser and the seller. Different rates
may be prescribed in respect of different classes of securities.
(2) The cess imposed under this section shall be in
addition to any other tax or cess levied under any other law.
Cess Fund 156. (1) There shall be established a fund called the “Cess
Fund” to be administered by the Commission to which shall
be credited the proceeds of the cess imposed under section
155.
(2) The monies lying to the credit of the Cess Fund shall
only be utilized for the purpose of –
(a) developing the securities market;
(b) enhancing monies lying to the credit of the
Compensation Fund or the Fund of the Commission
established under this Part;
Securities and Exchange Commission of 119
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(c) meeting all expenditure incurred by the
Commission in the management, administration,
and operation of the Commission in the exercise,
performance and discharge of its duties and
functions;
(d) granting loans for housing, educational, health and
transport purposes to the staff of the Commission
as the Commission deems appropriate;
(e) to make contributions to pension and provident
funds and other schemes established for the benefit
of the Director General and its officers and servants
and their dependents and nominees; and
(f) to defray the costs of study, in Sri Lanka or abroad
of the officers and servants of the Commission who
are of proven merit as determined by the
Commission.
(3) Any excess money lying to the credit of the Cess Fund
may be invested by the Commission in such manner as may
be determined by the Commission for the purpose of
developing the Cess Fund.
157. (1) The Commission shall have its own Fund. Fund of the
Commission
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund –
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted upon from
time to time by Parliament for the use of the
Commission;
(b) all sums of money as may be charged as costs
incurred in carrying out all inspections under the
provisions of this Act or paid as fees under the
provisions of this Act;
120 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(c) such sums of money that are recovered, as
reimbursements for costs incurred in carrying out
investigations and institution of legal proceedings
in respect of contraventions under the provisions
of this Act;
(d) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Commission by way of donations, gifts or grants
from the Consolidated Fund, the Government or a
foreign Government, State Agencies and from
multilateral and bilateral agencies whether within
or outside Sri Lanka; and
(e) such sums of money as may be credited from the
Cess Fund.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of
money required to defray the expenditure incurred by the
Commission in the exercise, discharge and performance of
its powers, functions and duties.
(4) Monies belonging to the Fund of the Commission
may be invested by the Commission in such manner as may
be determined by the Commission.
CHAPTER 2
FUND TO PROVIDE COMPENSATION TO INVESTORS
Compensation 158. (1) There shall be established a fund called the
Fund “Compensation Fund,” by the Commission for the purpose
of granting limited compensation to any investor who suffers
pecuniary loss as a result of any licensed stock broker or
stock dealer being found by the Commission as being
incapable of meeting its contractual obligations.
(2) The Compensation Fund shall consist of -
(a) such sums of money as may be voted upon by
Parliament;
