120 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(c) such sums of money that are recovered, as
reimbursements for costs incurred in carrying out
investigations and institution of legal proceedings
in respect of contraventions under the provisions
of this Act;
(d) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Commission by way of donations, gifts or grants
from the Consolidated Fund, the Government or a
foreign Government, State Agencies and from
multilateral and bilateral agencies whether within
or outside Sri Lanka; and
(e) such sums of money as may be credited from the
Cess Fund.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of
money required to defray the expenditure incurred by the
Commission in the exercise, discharge and performance of
its powers, functions and duties.
(4) Monies belonging to the Fund of the Commission
may be invested by the Commission in such manner as may
be determined by the Commission.
CHAPTER 2
FUND TO PROVIDE COMPENSATION TO INVESTORS
Compensation 158. (1) There shall be established a fund called the
Fund “Compensation Fund,” by the Commission for the purpose
of granting limited compensation to any investor who suffers
pecuniary loss as a result of any licensed stock broker or
stock dealer being found by the Commission as being
incapable of meeting its contractual obligations.
(2) The Compensation Fund shall consist of -
(a) such sums of money as may be voted upon by
Parliament;
Securities and Exchange Commission of 121
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(b) such sums of money as may be credited to the fund
under the provisions of this Act; and
(c) such sums of money as may be credited from the
Cess Fund as approved by the Commission.
(3) Monies belonging to the Compensation Fund may
be invested by the Commission in such manner as may be
determined by the Commission.
159. (1) The Commission shall appoint from amongst Appointment of
the members of the Commission, three members who shall a Compensation
Committee
comprise the Compensation Committee (hereinafter referred
to as the “Committee”) of the Commission.
(2) The Committee appointed under subsection (1) shall
be responsible for assessing and awarding compensation in
respect of any application made under section 162 and the
decision of such Committee on any such assessment or award
shall be final and conclusive for the purpose of this Act.
160. (1) Any investor who has suffered pecuniary loss as Application for
a result of any licensed stock broker or stock dealer being compensation
found incapable of meeting his contractual obligation
towards such investor may make an application to the
Committee in the specified form claiming compensation
from the Compensation Fund.
(2) The Committee may from time to time, require an
applicant to produce any document or other evidence in
support of the claim of the applicant for compensation. Where
the applicant fails to comply with such request, the
Committee may disallow the claim of the applicant.
(3) If at any time the Committee considers it necessary
so to do, it may hold an inquiry into the claim of the applicant
and shall by notice in writing, inform the applicant to be
present on such date, and at such time and place as may be
specified in the notice. Where the applicant fails to appear
for such inquiry on the date set out in the notice, the
Committee may disallow the claim of the applicant.
122 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
Payment of 161. (1) The Committee may, after examination of the
compensation documents and other evidence produced in support of the
claim by an applicant or in any case where an inquiry was
held on the conclusion of such inquiry allow or disallow
such claim for compensation.
(2) Where the Committee allows any claim it shall make
an assessment of the limited compensation payable and shall
make an award in relation thereto. Notice of such award
shall be given in writing to the applicant.
CHAPTER 3
FINANCIAL YEAR AND AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS
Financial Year 162. The financial year of the Commission shall be the
period of twelve months commencing on the first day of
January each year.
Audit of 163. (1) The Commission shall cause proper books of
Accounts
accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets
and liabilities and all other transactions of the Commission.
(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shall
apply to the audit of the accounts of the Commission.
PART VII
General
Object and 164. The object and purpose of this Part shall be to ensure
purpose of this effective implementation of provisions in this Act relating
Part
to production of documents, disclosure of information,
establishment of a Complaints Resolution Committee,
conducting inquiries and investigations, sharing of
information and the protection of whistleblowers.
