122 securities and exchange commission of sri lanka act, no. 19 of 2021 payment of 161. (1) the committee may, after examination of the compensation documents and other evidence produced in support of the claim by an applicant or in any case where an inquiry was held on the conclusion of such inquiry allow or disallow such claim for compensation. (2) where the committee allows any claim it shall make an assessment of the limited compensation payable and shall make an award in relation thereto. notice of such award shall be given in writing to the applicant. chapter 3 financial year and audit of accounts financial year 162. the financial year of the commission shall be the period of twelve months commencing on the first day of january each year. audit of 163. (1) the commission shall cause proper books of accounts accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all other transactions of the commission. (2) the provisions of article 154 of the constitution relating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the commission. part vii general object and 164. the object and purpose of this part shall be to ensure purpose of this effective implementation of provisions in this act relating part to production of documents, disclosure of information, establishment of a complaints resolution committee, conducting inquiries and investigations, sharing of information and the protection of whistleblowers. securities and exchange commission of 123 sri lanka act, no. 19 of 2021 chapter 1 provisions relating to implementation 165. (1) the commission or a person authorised by the production of commission may by notice in writing require any person documents and disclosure of within such period as specified in the notice to furnish any information information or produce any document or electronic record (other than any information or document which is prohibited from being disclosed or produced under any law relating to the imposition and recovery of any tax) as specified in such notice and as the commission may consider necessary for the proper exercise of its powers or the discharge of its functions under this act. (2) it shall be the duty of any person who receives a notice under subsection (1) to comply with the requirements of such notice within the period specified therein and, where in compliance with such notice such person discloses any information or produces any document or electronic record which he is prohibited from doing under any law, such disclosure or production shall notwithstanding anything to the contrary in such law not be deemed to be a contravention of the provisions of such law. (3) any information furnished or the contents of a document or an electronic record produced in compliance with a notice issued under this section shall not be published or communicated by the commission to any other person except– (a) by an order of court; or (b) in the course of the discharge of the functions of the commission; or (c) with the consent of the person furnishing such information, document or electronic record.