122 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
Payment of 161. (1) The Committee may, after examination of the
compensation documents and other evidence produced in support of the
claim by an applicant or in any case where an inquiry was
held on the conclusion of such inquiry allow or disallow
such claim for compensation.
(2) Where the Committee allows any claim it shall make
an assessment of the limited compensation payable and shall
make an award in relation thereto. Notice of such award
shall be given in writing to the applicant.
CHAPTER 3
FINANCIAL YEAR AND AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS
Financial Year 162. The financial year of the Commission shall be the
period of twelve months commencing on the first day of
January each year.
Audit of 163. (1) The Commission shall cause proper books of
Accounts
accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets
and liabilities and all other transactions of the Commission.
(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shall
apply to the audit of the accounts of the Commission.
PART VII
General
Object and 164. The object and purpose of this Part shall be to ensure
purpose of this effective implementation of provisions in this Act relating
Part
to production of documents, disclosure of information,
establishment of a Complaints Resolution Committee,
conducting inquiries and investigations, sharing of
information and the protection of whistleblowers.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 123
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
CHAPTER 1
PROVISIONS RELATING TO IMPLEMENTATION
165. (1) The Commission or a person authorised by the Production of
Commission may by notice in writing require any person documents and
disclosure of
within such period as specified in the notice to furnish any
information
information or produce any document or electronic record
(other than any information or document which is prohibited
from being disclosed or produced under any law relating to
the imposition and recovery of any tax) as specified in such
notice and as the Commission may consider necessary for
the proper exercise of its powers or the discharge of its
functions under this Act.
(2) It shall be the duty of any person who receives a
notice under subsection (1) to comply with the requirements
of such notice within the period specified therein and, where
in compliance with such notice such person discloses any
information or produces any document or electronic record
which he is prohibited from doing under any law, such
disclosure or production shall notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in such law not be deemed to be a contravention
of the provisions of such law.
(3) Any information furnished or the contents of a
document or an electronic record produced in compliance
with a notice issued under this section shall not be published
or communicated by the Commission to any other person
except–
(a) by an order of court; or
(b) in the course of the discharge of the functions of
the Commission; or
(c) with the consent of the person furnishing such
information, document or electronic record.
