Securities and Exchange Commission of 53
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(2) The rights and duties attached to the securities
maintained in the accounts of the central depository held by
a nominee shall be exercised by the beneficial owner
identified in the respective account held in the central
depository as if he is the holder of those securities.
(3) The appointment of a receiver, a receiver or manager,
liquidator or any equivalent person in respect of any
insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings of a depository
participant shall not affect the rights of holders of securities
held in trust by the central depository of that depository
participant.
63. Any registration of securities by the central Validation
depository prior to the enactment of this Act shall not be
invalid only for the reason that such registration has been
done other than in accordance with the provisions of this
Act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder.
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
64. (1) The rules of a market institution shall be approved Rules of a
by the Commission and such approved rules shall operate as market
institution
a binding contract-
(a) between the market institution and each issuer of
securities;
(b) between the market institution and each trading
participant, clearing member or depository
participant as the case may be;
(c) between each issuer of securities and each trading
participant; and
(d) between trading participants, clearing members or
depository participants.
54 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(2) The market institution, each issuer of securities, each
trading participant, clearing member and depository
participant respectively shall observe and perform the
obligations under the provisions of the rules so far as those
provisions are applicable to the market institution, issuer,
trading participant, clearing member or depository
participant as the case may be.
(3) The rules of a market institution in so far as they have
been approved by the Commission, shall not be amended,
varied or rescinded without the prior approval of the
Commission.
(4) Where a market institution proposes to amend its rules,
the market institution shall forward to the Commission in
writing the proposed amendment.
(5) The Commission shall, after hearing the market
institution within ninety days of receipt of the proposed
amendment give written notice to the market institution as
to whether such amendments to the rules are-
(a) allowed;
(b) disallowed; or
(c) allowed with amendments, variations or
modifications.
(6) Where the proposed amendment is disallowed, the
Commission shall give reasons for such disapproval.
(7) Where the Commission fails to revert to the market
institution within ninety days, proposed amendments to such
rules under subsection (4) shall take effect immediately on
the expiration of ninety days.
(8) Upon receipt of notice under subsection (5), the market
institution shall give immediate effect to such rule.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 55
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(9) Notwithstanding the provisions contained in
subsections (5) and (8), the Commission may amend the
rules of any market institution at any time and such rules
shall take effect with immediate effect or on such date as
specified by the Commission.
65. (1) Where any person who is under a duty to comply, Power of Court
observe, enforce or give effect to the rules of a market to order
institution fails to do so, the Commission shall direct such observance or
enforcement of
person to comply with such rules or to give reasons for such
rules of market
failure upon the market institution referring such matter to
institutions
the Commission.
(2) Where the Commission is not satisfied with the reasons
given by such person, the Commission may direct such
person referred to in subsection (1) to comply with the rules
and any other direction given by the Commission which the
Commission deems necessary.
(3) Any person who violates a directive of the
Commission issued under subsection (2) commits an offence.
(4) Where any person fails to comply with a directive
issued by the Commission under subsection (1), the
Commission may proceed as provided for under subsection
(2) or make an application to court for an order under
subsection (5).
(5) The Court may, make an order directing the first
mentioned person to comply, observe, enforce or give effect
to the rules of a market institution.
66. (1) A person other than a representative of the Control of
government, shall not enter into any agreement or substantial
arrangement to acquire any voting shares of a market shareholders of
a market
institution either individually or together with any other
institution
person acting in concert with him, exceeding five per centum
or more of the aggregate of all the voting shares in a market
institution, without obtaining the prior written approval of
the Commission.
56 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(2) The Commission may impose restrictions on the
maximum proportion of voting shares that may be held
directly or indirectly by a group of persons representing a
particular interest as may be determined by the Commission
by way of an Order published in the Gazette.
(3) The Commission may, at any time by publishing a
notification in the Gazette, vary the threshold referred to in
subsection (1) after taking into consideration the stage of
securities market development or the public interest.
(4) An application for the purpose of obtaining approval
under subsection (1) shall be made by the person intending
to acquire voting shares referred to therein and shall be sent
to the Commission in the form and manner as may be
specified by the Commission.
(5) The Commission may require the applicant –
(a) to give further information in connection with an
application; and
(b) to have any information submitted in support of an
application verified at the cost of the applicant, in
such manner and by such persons as it may specify.
(6) The Commission may grant its approval subject to
such terms and conditions as it thinks fit to impose.
Power of the 67. (1) Where the Commission is satisfied that any
Commission to person has contravened the provisions of section 66, the
make a
Commission may issue a directive imposing one or more of
preliminary
order to impose the following prohibitions as may be applicable or
prohibition
appropriate in the circumstances of the contravention in
respect of any shares:-
Securities and Exchange Commission of 57
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(a) prohibit the buying of, or the carrying out of the
agreement or arrangement to buy, such voting
shares, or in the case of unissued shares, the carrying
out of the agreement or arrangement to buy or the
buying of the right to be issued with unissued
shares;
(b) prohibit the exercise of any voting rights in respect
of such shares;
(c) prohibit the issue of any further shares in right of
such shares or in pursuance of any offer made to the
holder of such shares; or
(d) except in liquidation, prohibit the payment of any
sums due from the market institution, on such shares,
whether in respect of capital, dividends or otherwise.
(2) A directive issued under subsection (1) shall be served
on the person who contravenes subsection (1) as soon as is
practicable, and may be publicised in such manner as the
Commission thinks fit.
(3) A directive issued under subsection (1) shall be
binding on the person who contravenes subsection (1) or
any person for the time being holding the voting shares to
which such directive relates and on any other person specified
in the directive.
(4) Any person against whom a directive has been issued
under subsection (1), or any other person prejudicially
affected by such directive, may within fourteen days of the
issuance of the directive, make an appeal in writing to the
Commission for the setting aside of the directive on the
ground that he had not contravened the provisions in relation
to which the directive has been issued, or for a variation of
the directive on the ground that it would be just and proper
to vary it for reasons to be specified in the appeal.
58 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(5) The Commission may, within forty five days of
receiving an application under subsection (4) after
considering the appeal made by such application either
confirm, set aside or vary the directive issued under
subsection (1).
(6) Where the Commission confirms the directive made
under subsection (1) the Commission may direct the holder
of the shares to which the directive applies to dispose of the
shares.
(7) The Commission may issue any instruction or a
directive to the directors or officers of the market institution,
as may be necessary to give effect to any decision of the
Commission made under this section, or as may be incidental,
ancillary or consequential to such decision.
(8) Any transaction, including any agreement or
arrangement in relation to any shares which is in
contravention of any directive issued or of any decision
made under subsection (5) or of any instruction given or
directive issued by the Commission under subsection (7),
shall be deemed to have no effect in law.
(9) A person who contravenes any directive or decision
made under subsection (5), or any instruction given or
directive issued under subsection (7), commits an offence
and shall, on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate,
be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty five million rupees
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to
both such imprisonment and fine.
Appointment of 68. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Companies
directors to a Act, No. 7 of 2007, a person shall not accept appointment,
market
reappointment, election or re-election as a director, chief
institution
executive officer or chief regulatory officer of a market
institution except with the prior approval of the Commission.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 59
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(2) Where the approval of the Commission is required
under subsection (1), the Commission shall not approve, as
the case may be if -
(a) any proposed director, chief executive officer or
chief regulatory officer is an undischarged bankrupt,
whether within or outside Sri Lanka;
(b) a judgment debt against the proposed director, chief
executive officer or chief regulatory officer has not
been satisfied in whole or in part;
(c) the proposed director, chief executive officer or
chief regulatory officer–
(i) has been convicted, whether within or outside
Sri Lanka, of an offence, involving fraud or
dishonesty or the conviction for which
involved a finding that he has acted
fraudulently or dishonestly;
(ii) has been convicted of an offence under this
Act;
(iii) during a period of three years immediately
preceding such appointment has been subject
to any administrative sanction by the
Commission under this Act;
(iv) has been convicted of an offence involving
moral turpitude; or
(v) is likely to have a conflict of interest.
60 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
Alteration of 69. Where a market institution proposes to alter its
material
Articles of Association or any other material particulars
particulars of a
market already furnished or effects or intends to effect a change
institution from the state specified in the application or renewal of a
licence, the market institution shall obtain the approval of
the Commission before such alteration or change is effected.
Rights of an 70. Nothing in any written law relating to contracts to
exchange or a
the extent of its inconsistency with the provisions of this
clearing house
Act or any rules made thereunder shall affect -
(a) any rights to be conferred on an exchange or a
clearing house in relation to securities under this
Act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder;
(b) any rights to be conferred on a party to securities
transaction entered into by an exchange under this
Act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder,
or the rules of an exchange or a licensed clearing
house or a licensed central depositary as the case
may be; or
(c) anything done or omitted to be done under or in
relation to securities transaction entered into by an
exchange or a licensed clearing house or a licensed
central depositary under this Act, regulations, rules
or directives made thereunder, as the case may be.
Defence in 71. It shall be a defence in any criminal or civil
criminal or civil
proceeding for anything done or omitted to be done by-
liability
(a) an exchange; or
(b) any person acting on behalf of an exchange
including-
Securities and Exchange Commission of 61
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(i) any director of the exchange; or
(ii) any member of any committee established by
the exchange,
to prove that the exchange or the person under paragraph
(b) took all reasonable care and acted in good faith in the
course of or in connection with the discharge of its
obligations under this Act, regulations, rules or directives
made thereunder or the rules of such exchange.
72. (1) A market institution shall provide such assistance Provision of
assistance to the
to the Commission, or to a person acting on behalf of or with
Commission
the authority of the Commission, as the Commission or such
person reasonably requires, including the furnishing of such
returns, and the provision of such information relating to
the operations of the market institution as the Commission
or such person may require for the proper administration of
this Act.
(2) A person acting on behalf of or authorised by the
Commission shall be entitled at all reasonable time to full
and free access to the trading facility of an exchange for any
of the purposes of this Act.
(3) A person who refuses or fails without lawful excuse to
allow a person acting on behalf of or a person who is
authorised by the Commission access in accordance with
subsection (2) to the trading facility of an exchange commits
an offence under this Act.
73. (1) A market institution shall file with the Annual reports
Commission an annual report, within five months of the
date of its balance sheet, which shall include-
62 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(a) a report on the corporate governance policy of the
market institution and any other information
required by the Commission;
(b) audited financial statements prepared in accordance
with Sri Lanka’s Accounting Standards and such
other requirements as may be specified in the rules;
and
(c) consolidated financial statements, where the market
institution is a holding company or a subsidiary
where appropriate.
(2) The financial statements to be included in an annual
report under subsection (1) shall be audited in accordance
with Sri Lanka’s Auditing Standards.
(3) The annual report of a clearing house and a central
depository shall also include an audited report on risk
management procedures and their application and any other
information required by the Commission.
(4) The information required under subsections (2) and
(3) which is required to be included in an annual report shall
be in addition to the requirements imposed under the
Companies Act, No.7 of 2007.
Duties of an 74. (1) If an auditor of a market institution, in the
auditor of a
ordinary course of performing his duties, becomes aware of-
market
institution
(a) any matter which, in his opinion, adversely affects
or may adversely affect the financial position of
the market institution, to a material extent;
Securities and Exchange Commission of 63
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(b) any matter which, in his opinion, constitutes or may
constitute a breach of any provision of this Act,
regulations, rules or directives made thereunder or
an offence involving fraud or dishonesty affecting
the financial stability of the market institution to a
material extent; or
(c) any irregularity that has or may have a material
effect on the accounts of the market institution,
including any irregularity that adversely affects or
may adversely affect, the funds or property of
investors in securities,
the auditor shall immediately send to the board of directors
a written report of the matter or the irregularity with a copy
to the Commission.
(2) An auditor of a market institution shall not be liable
to any suit by any person in respect of any statement made
in his report under subsection (1) provided the auditor has
acted in good faith.
(3) The Commission may impose all or any of the
following duties on an auditor of a market institution: –
(a) a duty to submit such additional information and
reports in relation to his audit as the Commission
considers necessary;
(b) a duty to enlarge, extend or alter the scope of his
audit of the business and affairs of the market
institution;
(c) a duty to carry out any other examination or
establish any procedure in any particular case; or
64 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(d) a duty to submit a report on any matter arising out
of his audit, examination or establishment of
procedure referred to in paragraph (b) or (c), and the
auditor shall carry out such duties, as an extension
to his ordinary audit scope for issuing an
independent opinion on the financial statements.
(4) The market institution shall remunerate the auditor in
terms of the schedule of fees published by the Commission
in respect of the discharge by him of all or any of the duties
referred to in subsection (3) and in circumstances where
further investigation is necessary, remuneration to auditors
shall be paid out of the Fund of the Commission.
Obligation to 75. A market institution, shall submit to the
submit periodic
Commission such reports including a risk management audit
reports
in such form, manner and frequency as may be specified by
the Commission. The Commission in addition shall subject
the market institution to supervision and an annual audit by
the Commission to ascertain compliance by the market
institution with the provisions of this Act and of rules,
regulations, directives that may be issued by the Commission
from time to time.
Payment of 76. A market institution shall pay to the Commission
annual fee
an annual fee as may be prescribed.
Prohibition 77. (1) A person shall not hold out as a stock exchange,
against holding a derivatives exchange, a licensed clearing house or a central
out
depository and shall not take or use or by inference adopt
the name, title or description of “stock exchange”,
“derivatives exchange”, “futures exchange”, “stock market”,
Securities and Exchange Commission of 65
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
“derivatives market”, “futures market”, “licensed clearing
house”, “clearing facility”, “central depository”, “securities
trading market”, “derivatives trading market” or “ futures
trading market”, or take or use or have attached to or
exhibited at any place any name, title or description
implying or tending to create the belief that such person is a
stock exchange , derivatives exchange, licensed clearing
house or a central depository.
(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of
subsection (1) commits an offence.
78. (1) A person who is aggrieved by a decision of the Power of the
Commission may make an application to the Commission Commission to
review its own
to review its decision within thirty days after the aggrieved decision
person is notified of such decision.
(2) The Commission shall communicate its decision to
the applicant in writing not later than ninety days from the
date of the receipt of the application.
PART III
Issue of Securities
79. The object and purpose of this Part shall be– Object and
purpose of this
Part
(a) to regulate the issue of securities by way of public
offers;
(b) to ensure the disclosure of financial information by
listed public companies;
