Securities and Exchange Commission of 65
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
“derivatives market”, “futures market”, “licensed clearing
house”, “clearing facility”, “central depository”, “securities
trading market”, “derivatives trading market” or “ futures
trading market”, or take or use or have attached to or
exhibited at any place any name, title or description
implying or tending to create the belief that such person is a
stock exchange , derivatives exchange, licensed clearing
house or a central depository.
(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of
subsection (1) commits an offence.
78. (1) A person who is aggrieved by a decision of the Power of the
Commission may make an application to the Commission Commission to
review its own
to review its decision within thirty days after the aggrieved decision
person is notified of such decision.
(2) The Commission shall communicate its decision to
the applicant in writing not later than ninety days from the
date of the receipt of the application.
PART III
Issue of Securities
79. The object and purpose of this Part shall be– Object and
purpose of this
Part
(a) to regulate the issue of securities by way of public
offers;
(b) to ensure the disclosure of financial information by
listed public companies;
66 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(c) to require auditors to disclose financial irregularities
of listed public companies;
(d) to licence market intermediaries and register their
representatives; and
(e) to protect assets of the clients.
CHAPTER I
PUBLIC OFFER OF SECURITIES
Public Offer of 80. A listed public company or any public company
Securities
which has applied to obtain a listing in an exchange shall
not make a public offer of securities either directly or through
a third party by way of a prospectus or a similar document or
otherwise for the purposes of solicitation of funds from the
public unless approved by the Commission or a person
authorised by the Commission:
Provided however, the Commission having taken into
consideration the volume of securities, class of securities,
the number and type of investors, the nature of the issuer or
the nature of the securities market may by rules made under
this Act require that the approval of the Commission be
obtained prior to certain types of public offers of unlisted
companies.
Approval of the 81. (1) A listed public company shall obtain the
Commission for approval of the Commission or any person authorised by
issue of
the Commission to grant approval in respect of–
securities
(a) any new issue or offer for sale of securities to the
public, whether such issues or offers for sale are by
way of a public offer or otherwise;
