76 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(5) The auditor shall comply with any requirement of the
Commission under subsection (4) and the listed public
company shall remunerate the auditor at the rates specified
by the Commission in respect of the discharge by him of all
additional duties under this section.
(6) The listed public company shall provide such
information and access to such information as the auditor
shall require in respect of the discharge by him of all of the
additional duties under this section.
Prohibition 91. (1) A person shall not influence, coerce, mislead or
against undue authorise any person engaged in –
influence
(a) the preparation of the financial statements of a
listed public company or any of its related
companies; or
(b) the performance of an audit of the financial
statements of a listed public company or any of its
related companies,
to do anything which he knows or could reasonably have
known may cause the financial statements or audited
financial statements to be false or misleading in a material
particular.
(2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits
an offence.
CHAPTER 2
MARKET INTERMEDIARIES
Prohibition 92. (1) A person shall not hold out as a market
against holding intermediary without obtaining a licence from the
out as a market Commission.
intermediary
(2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits
an offence and shall on conviction after summary trial by a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty five
million rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 77
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
93. (1) Any person who carries on business as a market Requirement to
intermediary shall hold a licence issued for that purpose by be licensed with
the Commission. the Commission
(2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits
an offence and shall on conviction after summary trial by a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty five
million rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
94. (1) An application for the purpose of a licence under Application for
this section or renewal of the licence under subsection (4) of a licence or
renewal of a
this section shall be made to the Commission in such form
licence as a
together with such documents as may be specified by the
market
Commission by way of rules accompanied by such fee as intermediary
may prescribed.
(2) The Commission may require an applicant –
(a) to furnish further information in connection with
an application as it may specify; and
(b) to have any information submitted in support of an
application verified at the cost of the applicant in
such manner and by such persons as it may specify.
(3) An application for renewal of a licence under this
section shall be made three months prior to the expiry of the
licence, accompanied by the renewal fee as may be
prescribed.
(4) Where an application for renewal of a licence is made
after the expiry of the licence, the Commission may in
addition to the renewal fee, impose a late fee not exceeding
five per centum of the licensing fee as may be prescribed for
each day of delay until the renewal is made.
(5) The Commission may grant or renew a licence for the
purposes of this Chapter, subject to such conditions or
restrictions as it deems fit.
78 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
Refusal to grant 95. (1) Where an application is made for the grant or
or renew a renewal of a licence to act as a market intermediary, the
licence
Commission may refuse the application on any of the
following grounds:-
(a) the application was not made in accordance with
this Chapter;
(b) the applicant has failed to comply with any
requirement of this Act, regulations and the rules
made thereunder;
(c) any information or document that is furnished by
the applicant to the Commission is false or
misleading or from which there is a material
omission;
(d) the applicant is in the course of being wound up or
otherwise dissolved or is an undischarged bankrupt;
(e) execution against the applicant in respect of a
judgment debt has been returned unsatisfied in
whole or in part;
(f) a liquidator or receiver or manager or an equivalent
person has been appointed within or outside Sri
Lanka in respect of any property of the applicant;
(g) the applicant has, whether within or outside Sri
Lanka entered into a compromise or scheme of
arrangement with its creditors, being a compromise
or scheme of arrangement that is still in operation;
(h) the applicant or any of its directors, chief executive
officer, managers or controller–
(i) has been convicted, whether within or outside
Sri Lanka of an offence involving fraud or
dishonesty or the conviction of which involved
a finding that he acted fraudulently or
dishonestly;
Securities and Exchange Commission of 79
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(ii) has been subjected to any administrative
sanction under this Act;
(iii) has been convicted or has been compounded
of an offence for which he has been charged
under this Act or under the laws governing
securities outside Sri Lanka;
(iv) has contravened any provision made under any
law whether within or outside Sri Lanka
enacted for protecting members of the public
against financial loss, due to dishonesty,
incompetence or malpractice by persons,
concerned in the provision of financial
services or the management of companies or
against financial loss due to the conduct of
discharged or undischarged bankrupts; or
(v) is an undischarged bankrupt whether within or
outside Sri Lanka;
(i) the Commission has reason to believe that the
applicant or any of its directors, chief executive
officer or controller may not be able to act in the
best interest of its clients having regard to their
reputation, character, financial integrity and
reliability;
(j) the Commission is not satisfied as to the financial
standing of the applicant or the manner in which
the applicant’s business is to be conducted;
(k) the Commission is not satisfied as to the record of
past performance or expertise of the applicant,
having regard to the nature of the business which
the applicant may carry on in connection with the
holding of the licence and there exists circumstances
which are likely to -
80 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(i) lead to the improper conduct of business by
the applicant or by any of its directors, chief
executive officer or controller; or
(ii) reflect discredit on the manner of conducting
the business of the applicant; or
(l) the Commission is of the opinion that it would be
contrary to the interests of the investors to grant or
renew the licence.
(2) The Commission shall not refuse to grant or renew a
licence without giving the applicant an opportunity to be
heard.
Minimum 96. A market intermediary shall not carry on business for
financial which it is licensed under this Chapter, without the written
requirements consent of the Commission if it does not meet the minimum
financial requirements as may be specified by the
Commission or as may be provided in the rules of an
exchange.
Requirement to 97. (1) The Commission may specify by way of rules
register with the
that a person who deals with clients for and on behalf of a
Commission
market intermediary to register with the Commission and
for that purpose such person shall be known as a “registered
person”.
(2) For the purposes of seeking registration under
subsection (1), a market intermediary shall submit an
application to the Commission on behalf of that person
referred to in subsection (1) (hereinafter referred to as the
“applicant”).
Application for 98. (1) An application for the purpose of registration or
registration or renewal of the registration as a registered person under section
renewal of
97 shall be made to the Commission in such form
registration
accompanied by such documents as may be specified by the
Commission by rules together with such fee as may be
prescribed.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 81
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(2) The Commission may require an applicant–
(a) to furnish further information in connection with
an application as it may specify; and
(b) to have any information submitted in support of an
application verified at the cost of the applicant in
such manner and by such persons as it may specify.
(3) An application for renewal of registration under this
section shall be made three months prior to the expiry of the
registration.
(4) Where an application for renewal of registration is
made after the expiry of its registration, the Commission
may in addition to the renewal fee impose a late fee not
exceeding five per centum of the registration fee as may be
prescribed for each day of delay until the renewal is made.
(5) The Commission may grant or renew a registration
for the purposes of this Chapter, subject to such conditions
or restrictions as it thinks fit.
99. (1) Where an application is made for the grant or Grounds for
renewal of registration as a registered person under this Part, refusal to
register or renew
the Commission may refuse the application on any of the
registration
following grounds: —
(a) the application was not made in accordance with
section 98;
(b) the applicant has failed to comply with any
requirement of section 98;
(c) any information or document that is furnished by
the applicant to the Commission is false or
misleading or from which there is a material
omission;
82 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(d) the applicant is an undischarged insolvent or an
undischarged bankrupt whether within or outside
Sri Lanka;
(e) execution against the applicant in respect of a
judgment debt has been returned unsatisfied in
whole or in part;
(f) the applicant has –
(i) been convicted, whether within or outside Sri
Lanka of an offence involving fraud or
dishonesty or of an offence the conviction for
which involves a finding that he had acted
fraudulently or dishonestly;
(ii) been subjected to any administrative sanction
under this Act;
(iii) been convicted or compounded in respect of
an offence under this Act or under any laws
governing securities outside Sri Lanka; or
(iv) contravened any provision made under any
written law whether within or outside Sri Lanka
appearing to the Commission to be enacted for
protecting members of the public against
financial loss due to dishonesty, incompetence
or malpractice by persons, concerned in the
provision of financial services or the
management of companies or against financial
loss due to the conduct of discharged or
undischarged bankrupts;
(g) the Commission is not satisfied as to the educational
or other qualification or experience of the applicant
having regard to the nature of the duties to be
performed for and on behalf of the market
intermediary;
Securities and Exchange Commission of 83
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(h) the Commission has reason to believe that the
applicant may not be able to act in the best interests
of the clients of the market intermediary having
regard to his reputation, character, financial
integrity and reliability;
(i) the Commission is not satisfied as to the record of
past performance or expertise of the applicant
having regard to the nature of the duties to be
performed for and on behalf of the market
intermediary;
(j) the Commission has reason to believe that the
applicant has not acted honestly or fairly; or
(k) the Commission is of the opinion that it would be
contrary to the interests of investors to grant or
renew the registration.
(2) The Commission shall not refuse to grant or renew
the registration without giving the applicant an opportunity
of being heard.
100. The Commission may, at any time by notice in Power to vary
writing to a market intermediary and the registered person, conditions or
restrictions
vary any condition or restriction or impose such further
condition or restriction as it considers necessary for the
protection of investors.
101. (1) A licence that has been granted under this Part Duration of
licence or
shall be valid for a period of twelve months from the date of
registration
issue of the licence.
(2) A licence that has been renewed under this Part shall
continue to be in force for a further period of twelve months
or such later date as may be specified by the Commission
commencing on the date upon which it would have expired
but for its renewal.
84 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(3) Where a licence is renewed for a period of more than
twelve months, in terms of subsection (2), the market
intermediary shall pay to the Commission the prescribed
licence fee.
(4) The provisions of subsections (1) to (3) of this section
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation to the
duration of the registration granted to a registered person
under this Part.
False and 102. (1) A person shall not, in connection with an
misleading application submitted to the Commission under this Part –
statements to the
Commission
(a) make or procure the making of a statement to the
Commission which he knows or could reasonably
be expected to know is false or misleading; or
(b) omit to state any matter to the Commission where
he knows or could reasonably be expected to know
that because of the omission, the statement is
misleading in a material respect.
(2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits
an offence.
Duty to notify 103. (1) Where a market intermediary proposes to alter
the Commission material particulars already furnished or undergoes or intends
to alter the particulars specified in the application for a licence
or the renewal of a licence, it shall be the duty of such market
intermediary to inform the Commission and obtain its prior
consent before such alteration or change is effected.
(2) Where a registered person proposes to alter any
particulars already furnished or intends to change or alter
the status specified in the application for registration or
renewal of a registration as a registered person, it shall be the
duty of such registered person and the market intermediary
for whom the registered person is acting for or employed, to
forthwith inform the Commission of such alteration or
change.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 85
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
104. A person shall not act as an agent in carrying on the Prohibition
business of a licensed market intermediary or hold himself against holding
out as an agent
out as doing so unless he is duly authorised by the
Commission or a person authorised by the Commission to
carry on such activity.
105. (1) The Commission shall, cancel or suspend a Cancellation or
licence granted to a market intermediary under this Part, suspension of a
licence or a
where the Commission is satisfied that-
registration
(a) there exists any ground on which the Commission
may refuse an application for a licence;
(b) the market intermediary has contravened any
condition or restriction in respect of its licence or
any directive issued to him by the Commission
under this Act; or
(c) the market intermediary has contravened any
provision of this Act or any rule binding upon him
as the case may be.
(2) Before the cancellation or suspension of a licence
granted to a market intermediary in terms of subsection (1)
of this section, the market intermediary shall be given an
opportunity of being heard.
(3) Where the licence granted to a market intermediary
is cancelled, it shall be the duty of the market intermediary
to forthwith surrender its licence to the Commission.
(4) The cancellation of a licence by the Commission
under subsection (1) shall not affect or prejudice the
institution or maintenance of any action against such market
intermediary under this Act.
(5) The Commission shall have the power to suspend or
cancel the registration granted to a registered person under
this Part –
86 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(a) if it transpires that there exists any ground that
would disentitle him to registration;
(b) if the registered person has contravened any
condition or restriction in respect of its registration
or any directive issued to him by the Commission
under this Act; or
(c) if the registered person has contravened any
provision of this Act or any of the rule which are
binding on him as the case may be.
(6) The provisions of subsections (2) to (4) of this section
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation to, any
suspension or cancellation as the case may be, of a
registration granted to a registered person under this Part.
Trading in 106. A market intermediary or registered person shall
securities by not –
market
intermediaries
(a) trade in or otherwise deal in securities outside the
exchange of which he is a trading participant
without the prior approval of the Commission;
(b) trade in securities in contravention of such rules of
the Commission or the rules of a market institution;
(c) effect any transaction in a margin account in a
manner contrary to the requirements set out by the
market institution of which he is a trading
participant; or
(d) effect any transaction by means of any manipulative,
deceptive or other fraudulent device or contrivance
in order to induce or attempt to induce the purchase
or sale of any securities.
Lending and 107. A market intermediary shall not lend or arrange for
borrowing of lending of any securities carried for the account of any client
securities without without the client’s written consent or borrow or arrange to
the consent of the
borrow, using the securities carried for the account of any
client
client as collateral without the client’s written consent.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 87
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
108. (1) If an auditor of a market intermediary, in the Duty of an
ordinary course of the performance of his duties as an auditor, auditor of a
is of the opinion that there has been a breach of or non market
intermediary
compliance with any provision of this Act, regulations, rules
or directives made thereunder or a breach of any rule of a
market institution or any matter which may adversely affect
the financial position of the market intermediary to a
material extent, the auditor shall immediately submit a
written report to the board of directors on the matter with a
copy to–
(a) in the case of a contravention or non compliance
with any provision of this Act, regulation, rule or
directive made thereunder or any offence involving
fraud or dishonesty, to the Commission;
(b) in the case of a breach or non compliance of any of
the rules of a market institution, to the relevant
market institution and to the Commission; or
(c) in any other case, which adversely affects the
financial position of the market intermediary to a
material extent, to the relevant market institution
and to the Commission.
(2) No auditor shall be liable to be sued in any court for
any report submitted by the auditor in good faith and in the
performance of any duty imposed on the auditor under this
section.
(3) The Commission may at any time during or after an
audit, require an auditor of a market intermediary to–
(a) submit such additional information in relation to
his audit as the Commission may specify;
(b) enlarge or extend the scope of his audit of the
business and affairs of the market intermediary in
such manner or to such extent as the Commission
may require;
88 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(c) carry out any specific examination or establish any
procedure in any particular case; or
(d) submit a report or an interim report as the case may
be on any matter referred to in paragraphs (a) to (c),
and the Commission may specify the time within which such
requirements shall be complied with by the auditor.
(4) The auditor shall comply with any requirement of
the Commission under subsection (3) and the market
intermediary shall remunerate the auditor at the rates
specified by the Commission in respect of the discharge by
him of all additional duties under this section.
(5) The market intermediary shall provide such
information and access to such information as the auditor
shall require in respect of the discharge by him of all of the
additional duties under this section.
CHAPTER 3
PROTECTION OF CLIENTS’ ASSETS
Interpretation 109. For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context
otherwise requires—
“client” in relation to a market intermediary means
a person on behalf of whom the market
intermediary trades or from whom the
market intermediary accepts instructions
to deal in securities;
“money or other assets” means money received or
retained by, or any other asset deposited
with a market intermediary in the course
of its business for which it is liable to
account to its client, and any money or
other assets accruing therefrom.
