Securities and Exchange Commission of 123
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
CHAPTER 1
PROVISIONS RELATING TO IMPLEMENTATION
165. (1) The Commission or a person authorised by the Production of
Commission may by notice in writing require any person documents and
disclosure of
within such period as specified in the notice to furnish any
information
information or produce any document or electronic record
(other than any information or document which is prohibited
from being disclosed or produced under any law relating to
the imposition and recovery of any tax) as specified in such
notice and as the Commission may consider necessary for
the proper exercise of its powers or the discharge of its
functions under this Act.
(2) It shall be the duty of any person who receives a
notice under subsection (1) to comply with the requirements
of such notice within the period specified therein and, where
in compliance with such notice such person discloses any
information or produces any document or electronic record
which he is prohibited from doing under any law, such
disclosure or production shall notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in such law not be deemed to be a contravention
of the provisions of such law.
(3) Any information furnished or the contents of a
document or an electronic record produced in compliance
with a notice issued under this section shall not be published
or communicated by the Commission to any other person
except–
(a) by an order of court; or
(b) in the course of the discharge of the functions of
the Commission; or
(c) with the consent of the person furnishing such
information, document or electronic record.
124 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(4) The consent under paragraph (c) of subsection (3) is
not required when the person furnishing the information,
document or electronic record is being investigated by the
Commission for a breach of any provision of this Act or any
regulation, rule or directive made thereunder.
Inquiries and 166. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
investigations contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of
1979, the Commission or any person duly authorised by the
Commission, may hold inquiries or carry out investigations
as it may consider necessary or expedient for the exercise,
performance and discharge of the powers, duties and
functions of the Commission under this Act.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Commission
or any person authorised by the Commission may, summon
and call upon any person to appear before it or him to give
evidence or to produce any book or document in the
possession or control of such person as are required for the
purpose of such investigation or inquiry, where the
Commission has reasonable grounds to believe that—
(a) the transactions in securities are being dealt with in
a manner detrimental to investors or the securities
market by any person; or
(b) any market institution, market intermediary,
investor or any other person has violated any of the
provisions of this Act, regulations or the rules made
thereunder or the directives issued by the
Commission.
(3) Any person summoned or called upon to appear
before the Commission or any person duly authorised by
the Commission under subsection (2) may be examined
orally and any statement made by the person so examined
may be in writing. Every such statement in writing shall be
signed by the person so examined provided that prior to
signing the same, such person shall be required to read such
statement or if he does not understand the language in which
it is written it shall be interpreted to him in a language he
understands and he shall be at liberty to explain or add to
such statement.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 125
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(4) Every person who fails to appear before the
Commission or the person authorised, when required to do
so under subsection (2) or who refuses to answer any question
put to him by the Commission or a person duly authorised
by the Commission or any person who refuses to produce or
allow the Commission or any person duly authorised to take
copies of any book, document or electronic record in his
possession or control when required to do so or knowingly
gives any false answer to any question put to him by the
Commission or a person duly authorised by the Commission
commits an offence.
(5) (a) For the purpose of carrying out an inquiry or
investigation under subsection (1), the Commission may
authorise in writing any officer and any expert recognised
under the Computer Crimes Act, No. 24 of 2007, as may be
required to enter at all reasonable hours of the day any
premises of a market institution or market intermediary or
listed public company to inspect and take copies of any
document or electronic record or take into possession any
electronic device required to be kept under this Act or under
any regulation or rule or directive made thereunder or any
other law in respect of such business and where the
Commission has reasonable grounds to believe that such
information may be required in discharging its duties under
the Act, to access their computer systems to collect evidence.
(b) For the purpose of carrying out an inquiry or an
investigation under subsection (1), it shall be lawful for the
Commission or any person authorised by the Commission
upon an order issued by Magistrate’s court to have access to
any other premises not specified in paragraph (a) and inspect
any property, book, document, article, thing or electronic
record or device or otherwise in any form whatsoever and
seize or take possession of the copies of such book, document,
article, thing or electronic record or otherwise in any form
whatsoever provided it is deemed by such authorised persons
to be material evidence for a successful investigation or
inquiry under subsection (1).
126 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(6) Every authorised officer under subsection (1) shall
be deemed to be a peace officer within the meaning and for
the purposes of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15
of 1979.
(7) The provisions of the Computer Crimes Act, No. 24
of 2007 shall mutatis mutandis apply in carrying out an
inquiry or investigation under subsection (5) or any other
section in this Act relating to electronic records or documents.
(8) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law where the Commission on a consideration of
material collected in the course of an investigation or inquiry
or both an inquiry and investigation as the case may be is
satisfied that any person has committed an offence under
this Act other than an offence under Part V, it may authorise
the Director General to initiate criminal proceedings against
such person or to take any other enforcement action as
provided for under this Act.
(9) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law the Commission may if it deems appropriate
forward the material collected and received under this Part
to the Attorney General or any other authority to take any
appropriate action under any other written law.
Issue of freezing 167. (1) On reasonable suspicion of a contravention of
orders any provision of this Act, regulations, rules or directives
made thereunder, the Commission may, at any time where
an inquiry is being carried out or a person is being
investigated in terms of section 165, issue a directive
(hereinafter referred to as a “freezing order”)-
(a) prohibiting a person from disposing assets of such
person or any part thereof which is related to the
matter under inquiry or investigation; or
(b) prohibiting a person from entering into any
transaction or a class of transactions as may be
determined by the Commission.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 127
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(2) A freezing order made under subsection (1) shall not
be in force for a period exceeding seven market days from
the date of issue of such order.
(3) The Commission after issuing a freezing order under
subsection (1), shall within the period during which the
freezing order is in force, make an application to court seeking
confirmation of such freezing order and also if circumstances
so necessitates, request an extension thereto as required after
giving the aggrieved person an opportunity of being heard.
(4) Where the court is satisfied that there are sufficient
reasons for issuance of such freezing order, the court may
confirm the freezing order and if it is satisfied that there are
sufficient reasons for extension thereof may, grant extensions
for such periods as it considers appropriate.
(5) On an application made by the Commission to court
in terms of subsection (3), the court shall make an appropriate
order in respect of the management of the asset under a
freezing order.
168. (1) The Commission shall establish a Complaints Inquiry by
Resolution Committee to hear complaints by any person Complaints
Resolution
relating to the professional misconduct or the breach of any
Committee
provision of this Act, regulations, rules made thereunder or
directives issued on a market institution, market
intermediary, listed public company or a registered person
or any other person who comes under the regulatory purview
of the Commission.
(2) The Commission or any person duly authorised by
the Commission may hold such inquiries as it or he may
consider necessary or expedient for the exercise, performance
and discharge of the powers, duties and functions of the
Commission under this Act and for such purpose summon
and call upon any person to appear before the Complaints
Resolution Committee to give evidence or to produce any
books or documents in the possession or control of such
person as are required for the purpose of such inquiries.
128 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(3) The Commission shall establish appropriate processes
and procedures for handling such complaints, and all matters
related thereto by rules.
(4) The Complaints Resolution Committee may on
receipt of any written complaint made by a person, examine
the evidence produced to find whether any provision of this
Act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder or any
rules of a market institution has been contravened.
(5) Where the Committee finds that a market institution,
market intermediary, listed public company or registered
person has contravened a provision under this Act, regulation,
rule or directive issued thereunder or rules of a market
institution, the Complaints Resolution Committee shall
convey such finding with a recommendation to the
Commission and the Commission shall have the discretion
to either give effect to such recommendation or take any
other action as it may deem expedient.
(6) The Commission shall not take any action under this
section without affording such market institution, market
intermediary, listed public company or registered person an
opportunity of being heard.
Supplementary 169. (1) The Commission shall be entitled to seek
Service information, clarification or explanation from supplementary
Providers
service providers in relation to professional services carried
out in respect of a market institution, market intermediary or
listed public company or an unlisted company which has
made a public offer of securities in accordance with
section 81.
(2) Where the Commission is of the view that the services
rendered in terms of subsection (1) is likely to cause harm to
the interest of investors, the Commission may issue a
directive to such supplementary service provider to take
corrective action as may be determined by the Commission.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 129
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(3) The Commission may make guidelines or rules to
provide for the duties and obligations of supplementary
service providers where the Commission considers it
necessary.
170. The Commission may enter into agreements or Implementation
memoranda of understanding with such other organisations of agreements or
memoranda of
in connection with the sharing of information on regulatory
understanding
functions relating to securities and investors in securities
markets.
171. (1) The Commission may on its own motion or upon Sharing of
an order issued by a competent court of law- information and
cooperation
(a) permit a police officer or any public officer to have
access to and inspect any property, book, document,
article, thing or electronic record or otherwise in
any form whatsoever which has been produced
before, seized, detained or taken possession of by
the Commission under this Act; or
(b) provide to a police officer or any public officer a
copy of any book, document or electronic record or
otherwise in any form whatsoever seized, detained
or taken possession of by an investigating officer
or by any officer of the Commission in the course
of any inspection carried out by the Commission in
the exercise of its powers or in the discharge of his
duties in respect of any person.
(2) The Commission may, where it deems necessary, enter
into regulatory arrangements to cooperate with any domestic
or foreign supervisory authority which may include –
(a) obtaining any information or document or
electronic record from any domestic or foreign
supervisory authority; and
(b) share any information or document or electronic
record with any domestic or foreign supervisory
authority.
130 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(3) The Commission may, upon receiving a written
request from a foreign supervisory authority for assistance
in respect of any regulatory matter which the foreign
supervisory authority enforces or administers, provide such
assistance to such foreign supervisory authority as the
Commission deems fit for the purpose.
(4) In determining whether to render assistance under
subsection (3), the Commission shall have regard to-
(a) whether the foreign supervisory authority shall pay
the Commission any cost and expenses incurred
for providing the foreign supervisory authority with
the assistance; and
(b) whether the foreign supervisory authority shall be
able and willing to provide reciprocal assistance in
response to a comparable request for assistance from
the Commission.
(5) In this section –
“domestic supervisory authority” means
the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
established under the Monetary
Law Act, Registrar General of
Companies appointed under the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, the
Police and any other regulatory
authority under any written law;
“foreign supervisory authority” means
a foreign authority which
exercises functions corresponding
to the functions of the
Commission under this Act or any
person or international
organisation outside Sri Lanka
Securities and Exchange Commission of 131
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
exercising regulatory functions
and in respect of which the
Commission considers desirable
and necessary in the interest of the
public to enter into such
arrangement or to render such
assistance; and
“Public Officer” shall have the meaning
assigned to that expression by
Article 170 of the Constitution.
172. (1) An employer shall not discharge, terminate, Whistleblower
demote or cause harassment to a person in employment on protection
account of having provided information to the Commission
concerning violations or potential violations of this Act,
regulations, rules or directives made thereunder or any rule
of a market institution.
(2) Any employer who retaliates against such person for
providing information to the Commission in terms of
subsection (1) may be subjected to such administrative
penalty as may be determined by the Commission by rules,
after affording such person an opportunity of being heard.
(3) For the purposes of this section, a “person in
employment” includes a director, partner, chief executive
officer, chief financial officer, company secretary, internal
auditor or any other employee.
(4) The Commission may grant a reward in terms of rules
made in that regard, to a whistleblower who is the first to
provide such information which leads to the successful
prosecution or any other sanction by the Commission against
a person for a contravention of the provisions of this Act.
173. The Minister may, from time to time, request the Furnishing of
Commission in writing to furnish to him in such form as he information to
the Minister
may require returns, accounts and other information with
132 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
respect to the work of the Commission and the Commission
may furnish such information other than information deemed
confidential by the Commission, on the grounds that
providing such information –
(a) would cause grave prejudice to an ongoing
investigation under the Act;
(b) would cause grave prejudice to the prevention or
detection of any offence under the Act; or
(c) expose the identity of a confidential source of
information in relation to any inquiries or
investigations that are being conducted by the
Commission under the Act.
Protection for 174. (1) No suit or prosecution shall be instituted against
action taken any member of the Commission or against any officer of the
under the Act
Commission for any acts done or purported to be done or
omitted to be done in good faith under this Act or on the
direction of the Commission.
(2) Any expense incurred by the Commission in any suit
or prosecution brought by or against it before any court
shall be paid out of the Fund of the Commission and any
cost paid to or recovered by the Commission in any such
suit or prosecution shall be credited to such fund of the
Commission.
(3) Any expenses incurred by a person referred to in
subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution brought against
him before any court in respect of any act which is done or
purported to be done by him under this Act or on the
direction of the Commission shall, if the court holds that
such act was done in good faith be paid out of the Fund of
the Commission unless such expenses are recovered by him
in such suit or prosecution.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 133
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
CHAPTER 2
PROVISIONS RELATING TO PUNISHMENTS AND ENFORCEMENT
MECHANISMS
175. (1) Other than offences under Part V, any person Offences
who–
(a) contravenes any provision of this Act or any
requirement imposed under the provisions of this
Act or any regulation or rule or directive made
thereunder;
(b) furnishes or produces, for the purposes of this Act
or any requirement imposed under the provisions
of this Act or any regulation, or any rule or
directive made thereunder, any information or any
return, document or electronic record or statement
the contents of which are, to his knowledge, untrue,
incorrect or misleading;
(c) threatens or intimidates or willfully obstructs, makes
any derogatory remarks and publishes any
statement with a view to bringing disrepute or
defaming any member of the Commission or the
Director-General or an officer or servant of the
Commission or any person with whom the
Commission has entered into an agreement in the
course of discharging his duties under this Act or
under any regulation or rule made thereunder;
(d) in any manner falsify any information or electronic
record or store any misleading or false information
in any book or electronic record in relation to the
business of a market institution, market
intermediary or a listed public company or any of
its related companies; or
(e) destroys, conceals, mutilates, alters, sends or
attempts to send or conspires with any other person
to remove from its premises or send out of Sri Lanka
