66 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(c) to require auditors to disclose financial irregularities
of listed public companies;
(d) to licence market intermediaries and register their
representatives; and
(e) to protect assets of the clients.
CHAPTER I
PUBLIC OFFER OF SECURITIES
Public Offer of 80. A listed public company or any public company
Securities
which has applied to obtain a listing in an exchange shall
not make a public offer of securities either directly or through
a third party by way of a prospectus or a similar document or
otherwise for the purposes of solicitation of funds from the
public unless approved by the Commission or a person
authorised by the Commission:
Provided however, the Commission having taken into
consideration the volume of securities, class of securities,
the number and type of investors, the nature of the issuer or
the nature of the securities market may by rules made under
this Act require that the approval of the Commission be
obtained prior to certain types of public offers of unlisted
companies.
Approval of the 81. (1) A listed public company shall obtain the
Commission for approval of the Commission or any person authorised by
issue of
the Commission to grant approval in respect of–
securities
(a) any new issue or offer for sale of securities to the
public, whether such issues or offers for sale are by
way of a public offer or otherwise;
Securities and Exchange Commission of 67
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(b) private placement of securities;
(c) rights issues of securities;
(d) bonus issues of securities; or
(e) schemes of arrangements, schemes of reconstruction,
take over schemes, share option schemes and
acquisition of assets by way of issues of securities.
(2) A listed foreign entity seeking a listing on an exchange
licensed by the Commission shall apply to the Commission
or any person authorised by the Commission for approval
to make a public offer of securities.
(3) The board of directors of every listed public company
and listed foreign entity shall ensure that the company or
the entity shall comply with the rules and requirements of
the exchange in which it is listed at all times so long as the
company or the entity remains listed on the exchange.
82. (1) The prospectus or similar document prepared by Prospectus or
similar
a person making an offer to the public shall comply with the
document
requirements specified in the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007,
and any other requirements specified by the Commission
and the rules of an exchange.
(2) A person making an issue of securities to the public
shall lodge a copy of the prospectus or a similar document
with the Commission or with any person authorised by the
Commission for that purpose prior to registration of the
prospectus as required under the Companies Act, No. 7 of
2007.
68 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(3) The Commission may examine any prospectus or
similar document when a person makes a public offer of
securities for the purpose of solicitation of funds from the
public.
Commission to 83. (1) Where the Commission is of the opinion that–
issue stop orders
(a) a prospectus or similar document submitted to a
licensed stock exchange under its listing rules or in
respect of public offers falling within section 80
does not comply with or is not prepared in
accordance with the provisions of this Act or the
rules of the exchange as the case may be;
(b) a prospectus or similar document contains a
statement or information that is false or misleading
or from which there is a material omission; or
(c) an issuer has contravened any provision of this Act,
regulations, rules or directives made thereunder or
has not complied with the requirements imposed
under this Act,
the Commission may issue an order to the issuer not to allot,
issue, offer or make an invitation to subscribe for or purchase
or sell further securities relating to public offers.
(2) The Commission shall not make an order under
subsection (1) unless the Commission has given a reasonable
opportunity to be heard to any affected person as to whether
such an order should be made.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 69
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(3) If the Commission considers that any delay in making
an order under subsection (1) by giving an opportunity to
be heard would be prejudicial to the interest of investors,
the Commission may make an interim order without giving
an opportunity to be heard.
(4) An interim order under subsection (3) shall, unless
previously revoked have effect until the end of twenty one
days after the day on which it is made or the conclusion of
the hearing in subsection (2), whichever date is later.
(5) An order made under subsection (1) or an interim order
made under subsection (3) may be revoked by the
Commission by way of a directive if the Commission becomes
satisfied that the circumstances that resulted in the making
of the order no longer exist.
(6) Where applications to subscribe for or purchase
securities to which the prospectus or similar document relates
has been made prior to an order under subsection (1) being
made–
(a) but before the securities have been issued to the
applicants, the applications shall be deemed to have
been withdrawn and cancelled and the issuer or
such other person who receives the monies, shall,
forthwith repay without interest all monies received
from the applicants and if the money is not repaid
within fourteen days of the order, the issuer shall be
liable to repay the monies with interest as may be
specified by the Commission from the expiration
of that period; or
70 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(b) where the securities have been allotted to the
applicants, the allotment of securities shall be
deemed to be void and the issuer or any other person
shall forthwith repay without interest all monies
received from the applicants and if such money is
not repaid within fourteen days of the date of service
of the order the issuer shall be liable to repay such
monies with interest at the rate as may be specified
by the Commission from the expiration of that
period.
(7) Provisions of this section shall not apply in respect of
any issuer if any of the securities to which the prospectus or
similar document relates have been issued or listed on an
exchange and trading in them has commenced.
Purchase, sale or 84. (1) A person holding securities in a company listed
transfer of on an exchange shall buy, sell, gift or otherwise deal in such
securities
securities in compliance with the trading procedure adopted
by such licensed exchange:
Provided however, where no express trading procedure
has been adopted by such exchange, the approval of the
Commission shall be obtained.
(2) A person as referred to in subsection (1) may gift any
such securities to a relation otherwise than in compliance
with such trading procedure, if he gives prior notice to the
Commission and the licensed exchange, of the particulars
relating to the proposed gift.
(3) In this section “relation” means a parent, spouse, child
including step children, brother or sister including step
brother or step sister of that person or the spouse of a child of
that person.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 71
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
85. (1) Where it appears to the Commission from the Power of the
Commission to
disclosures made to the public that -
require the
production of
(a) there exist circumstances that the business of a listed documents
public company has been conducted–
(i) in a manner that contravenes the provisions
of this Act, regulations, rules or directives
made thereunder or rules of a market
institution; or
(ii) in a manner, prejudicial to interest of
investors;
(b) there exist circumstances that the company was
listed for a fraudulent or unlawful purpose;
(c) there exist circumstances that the persons concerned
with the listing of a company or the management of
its affairs in relation to the listing have been guilty
of fraud, wrongdoing or other misconduct; or
(d) there exist circumstances that the director or
management of a listed public company have
intentionally suppressed information with respect
to the affairs of the company that is required to be
provided under this Act, regulations, rules or
directives made thereunder or as may reasonably
be expected to be released to the public,
the Commission may issue directives to the listed public
company requiring such company to produce the documents,
electronic records or other information specified in the
directive at a specified time and place in order to conduct an
inquiry or investigation into the matters specified in the
preceding provisions.
72 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(2) The Commission may delegate its authority under
subsection (1) to any person to require the submission of
documents, electronic records or any other information for
the purposes of subsection (1).
(3) The Commission or an authorised person may also
require the production of such documents and electronic
records in relation to the listed public company which is the
subject of an inquiry or investigation, from any person who
is in possession of them.
(4) Where such documents or electronic records referred
to in subsections (1), (2) and (3) are produced, the
Commission or the authorised officer shall require the listed
public company–
(a) to require that person or any other person who is a
present or past officer of the listed public company
or was at any time employed by the listed public
company to provide an explanation of such
documents and electronic records; and
(b) where the records and documents and electronic
records are not produced as required, the person
required to produce such records, documents or
electronic records to give reasons for such failure;
or
(c) where the documents and electronic records are not
produced, the person required to produce them shall
disclose its location to the best of his knowledge
and belief.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 73
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(5) Where any listed public company fails to comply with
this section, the Commission shall issue a directive to the
listed public company under section 86 of this Act.
86. Where the Commission after due inquiry or Power of the
Commission to
investigation determines that a listed public company has
issue directives
contravened or failed to comply with any provision of the to listed public
companies
Act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder or has
furnished the Commission with information that is false,
inaccurate or misleading, the Commission may take any
enforcement action provided under this Act as deemed
appropriate.
87. (1) A person who furnishes information or cause Duty not to
furnish false
information to be furnished to the Commission under this
information to
Act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder shall the Commission
exercise due care to ensure that the information is not false
or misleading in any material particular.
(2) A person who –
(a) signs a document lodged with the Commission; or
(b) submits to the Commission a document by
electronic means using any identification or other
authentication method or procedure assigned to him
by the Commission,
shall exercise due care to ensure that the document is not
false or misleading in a material particular.
(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2)
commits an offence under this Act.
74 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
Duty not to 88. A person with intent to deceive, makes or furnishes,
make false or knowingly and willfully authorises or permits the making
statements to or furnishing of any misleading statement or report to a
market market institution licensed under this Act in relation to any
institutions
information that a listed public company is required to
furnish under this Act, regulations, rules or directives made
thereunder commits an offence under this Act.
Appointing 89. (1) The board of directors of every listed public
directors or company shall ensure that the company and its directors
chief executive comply with the rules and requirements of the exchange on
officer
which it is listed on a continuous basis as long as the
company remains listed on such exchange.
(2) The directors or chief executive officer of a listed
public company shall comply with the fit and proper criteria
specified by the Commission by rules or in the rules of an
exchange approved by the Commission.
Duties of an 90. (1) If an auditor of a listed public company in the
auditor of a ordinary course of the performance of his duties, becomes
listed public aware of-
company
(a) any contravention or non compliance with any
requirement or provision of this Act, any regulation,
rule or directive made thereunder or a breach of any
rule of an exchange or any offence involving fraud
or dishonesty; or
(b) any matter which may in his opinion adversely
affects or is likely to adversely affect the financial
position of the listed public company to a material
extent; or
(c) any irregularity that has or may have a material
effect upon the accounts of a listed public company
including any irregularity that affects or jeopardizes
or may affect or jeopardize the funds or property of
any investor in securities,
the auditor shall immediately report such matters referred to
in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) to the audit committee in writing
for rectification and if no remedial measure is taken within
Securities and Exchange Commission of 75
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
two weeks thereof, refer such matters to the board of directors
in writing to rectify such matters or deter the commission of
a breach where it has not yet occurred.
(2) If no action is taken under subsection (1) by the board
of directors to rectify such matters referred to in paragraphs
(a), (b) or (c) within two weeks, the auditor shall submit a
written report on the matters immediately thereupon–
(a) in the case of a contravention or non compliance
with any requirement or provision of this Act, any
regulation, rule or directive issued thereunder or an
offence involving fraud or dishonesty, to the
Commission; or
(b) in the case of a breach of or non compliance with
any rules of an exchange, to the relevant exchange
and the Commission.
(3) No auditor shall be liable to be sued in any court for
any report submitted by the auditor in good faith and in the
performance of any duty imposed on the auditor under this
section.
(4) The Commission may at any time during or after an
audit, require an auditor of a listed public company to–
(a) submit such additional information in relation to
his audit as the Commission may specify;
(b) enlarge or extend the scope of his audit of the
business and affairs of the listed public company in
such manner or to such extent as the Commission
may specify;
(c) carry out any specific examination or establish any
procedure in any particular case; or
(d) submit a report including an interim report on any
matter referred to in paragraphs (a) to (c),
and the Commission may specify the time within which such
requirements shall be complied with by the auditor.
76 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(5) The auditor shall comply with any requirement of the
Commission under subsection (4) and the listed public
company shall remunerate the auditor at the rates specified
by the Commission in respect of the discharge by him of all
additional duties under this section.
(6) The listed public company shall provide such
information and access to such information as the auditor
shall require in respect of the discharge by him of all of the
additional duties under this section.
Prohibition 91. (1) A person shall not influence, coerce, mislead or
against undue authorise any person engaged in –
influence
(a) the preparation of the financial statements of a
listed public company or any of its related
companies; or
(b) the performance of an audit of the financial
statements of a listed public company or any of its
related companies,
to do anything which he knows or could reasonably have
known may cause the financial statements or audited
financial statements to be false or misleading in a material
particular.
(2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits
an offence.
CHAPTER 2
MARKET INTERMEDIARIES
Prohibition 92. (1) A person shall not hold out as a market
against holding intermediary without obtaining a licence from the
out as a market Commission.
intermediary
(2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits
an offence and shall on conviction after summary trial by a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty five
million rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
