Securities and Exchange Commission of 95
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(3) An application by such person for registration under
this Chapter shall provide documents to prove that the
arrangements are made by such platform for the clearance
and settlement of the trades executed on the platform to the
satisfaction of the Commission.
CHAPTER 2
ROLE OF A RECOGNISED MARKET OPERATOR
120. The functions and duties of a recognised market Functions and
operator shall be- duties of a
recognized
market operator
(a) to provide a platform for the sale and purchase of
unlisted securities in Sri Lanka;
(b) to provide information relating to unlisted securities
in Sri Lanka to the local and international financial
community;
(c) to provide criteria for admission and regulatory
standards of its trading members;
(d) to comply with any directive issued by the
Commission, whether of a general or specific nature;
and
(e) to provide such assistance to the Commission, or to
a person acting on behalf of or with the authority of
the Commission, as the Commission or such person
reasonably requires.
121. Any person buying and selling securities on a Trading on a
platform shall execute their orders through trading members platform
admitted by the platform.
122. The Commission may make rules or require the Rules to be
market operator to make rules subject to the approval of the made by the
Commission or
Commission -
the market
operator
96 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(a) to determine the type of unlisted securities that can
be traded on a platform;
(b) to determine the type of issuers who can report
trades to a platform;
(c) to determine the type of investors that may trade on
the platform;
(d) to determine the type of trading members that may
trade on the platform;
(e) for the admission of trading members on the
platform;
(f) to determine the level of disclosures required to be
made by the platform; and
(g) to determine the standard of business conduct in
the sale or purchase of unlisted securities.
Cancellation of 123. (1) Subject to subsection (3), where the Commission
registration is satisfied that it is appropriate to do so in the interest of the
investors or for the maintenance of an orderly and fair market,
the Commission may, by notice in writing, cancel the
registration of a recognised market operator with effect from
a date that is specified in the notice.
(2) The grounds for the cancellation of the registration
shall be stated in the notice referred to in subsection (1).
(3) Notwithstanding the cancellation under subsection
(1), the Commission may permit the person to continue on
or after the date on which the cancellation is to take effect,
to carry on such activities affected by the cancellation as the
Commission may specify in the notice for the purpose of –
(a) closing down the operations of the recognised
market operator to which the cancellation relates;
or
(b) protecting the interest of the investors.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 97
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(4) Where the Commission has granted permission to a
person under subsection (3), such person shall not, by reason
of its carrying on the activities in accordance with the
permission, be regarded as having contravened any
provision of this Act.
(5) The Commission shall not exercise its power under
subsection (1) in relation to a recognised market operator
unless it has given the recognised market operator an
opportunity of being heard.
(6) Any cancellation of registration made under this
section shall not operate so as to –
(a) avoid or affect any agreement, transaction or
arrangement entered into by the recognised market
operator whether the agreement, transaction or
arrangement was entered into before or where
subsection (3) applies, after the cancellation of the
registration under subsection (1); or
(b) affect any right, obligation or liability arising under
such agreement, transaction or arrangement.
124. (1) The Commission may from time to time review Review of the
the performance of a recognised market operator under this performance of
Part. a recognised
market operator
(2) The Commission may have regard to the following
when reviewing the status of the recognised market operator:-
(a) the systemic risk inherent in a platform;
(b) the public interest;
(c) the size and structure of the platform;
(d) the class of unlisted securities traded on the
platform; and
(e) the nature of the investors and the participants using
the platform.
98 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(3) The Commission shall not exercise its powers under
subsection (1) without giving the recognised market operator
an opportunity of being heard.
Application of 125. The rules relating to unlisted securities applicable
the provisions of to such trading platform made by the Commission or the
the Act to
recognised market operator under this Part shall prevail over
unlisted
any other rules relating to unlisted securities.
securities
PART V
Market Misconduct
Object and 126. The object and purpose of this Part shall be to
purpose of this facilitate for the deterrence and the taking of enforcement
Part action against –
(a) all types of market manipulation including false
trading, market rigging and securities fraud; and
(b) insider trading,
with a view to establishing a fair, orderly and transparent
securities market.
Application of 127. This Part shall apply unless specified otherwise
this Part therein-
(a) in respect of securities-
(i) to acts or omissions occurring within Sri Lanka
in relation to securities of any listed public
company or any unlisted company that has
made a public offer of securities in accordance
with section 80 which is established or is
carrying on business within or outside Sri Lanka;
(ii) to acts or omissions occurring outside Sri Lanka
in relation to securities of any listed public
