2 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(c) to protect the interests of local and foreign investors;
and
(d) to ensure the maintenance of high professional
standards in the provision of services in relation to
securities markets.
CHAPTER 2
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OF SRI LANKA
Establishment of 4. (1) There shall be established a Commission which
the Securities shall be called the Securities and Exchange Commission of
and Exchange
Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”) to
Commission of
Sri Lanka administer the provisions of this Act.
(2) The Commission shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.
Constitution of 5. (1) The Commission shall consist of –
the Commission
(a) six persons possessing professional expertise and
standing in respect of matters relating to the
securities market, and possessing special knowledge
or wide experience and proven competency in the
fields of law, finance, accounting, economics,
banking or business to be appointed by the Minister
as members (hereinafter referred to as “appointed
members”) in order to reflect the multidisciplinary
character of the Commission, of whom at least
five persons shall be from the private sector;
Securities and Exchange Commission of 3
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(b) two nominated members, -
(i) a Deputy Secretary to the Treasury nominated
by the Secretary to the Treasury; and
(ii) a Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Sri
Lanka nominated by the Monetary Board of
Sri Lanka; and
(c) two ex-officio members, -
(i) the Registrar-General of Companies,
appointed under the Companies Act, No. 7 of
2007; and
(ii) the President of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka established by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants Act, No.
23 of 1959.
(2) The Minister shall nominate from amongst the
appointed members of the Commission, one member to be
the Chairman of the Commission.
(3) In appointing persons under subsection (1), the
Minister shall have regard to-
(a) that person’s integrity and standing; and
(b) the likelihood of any conflict between the interests
of the Commission and any interest which that
person has or represents.
4 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
Conflict of 6. Every appointed or nominated member of the
interest
Commission when being appointed shall be required to make
a declaration to the Minister on any conflict of interests he
may have at the time of his appointment.
Term of office 7. Every appointed or nominated member of the
of appointed or
nominated Commission, unless he vacates office earlier by death, by
members operation of law, resignation or removal, shall hold office
for a term of three years and shall be eligible for
reappointment subject to a maximum period of any two terms
of office whether consecutive or otherwise.
Resignation of 8. (1) Any appointed or nominated member of the
members of the
Commission may at any time resign his office by letter
Commission
addressed to the Minister and such resignation shall take
effect upon it being accepted by the Minister.
(2) In the event of vacation of office of any member other
than an ex-officio member by reason of death, resignation,
removal or the operation of provisions of subsection (4) or
(5), the Minister may appoint another person having regard
to the provisions of subsection (3) of section 5 to hold office
for the unexpired period of the term of office of the member
whom he succeeds.
(3) If any member of the Commission other than the
Chairman is temporarily unable to perform the duties of his
office for a period exceeding three months due to ill health
or absence from Sri Lanka or for any other cause, the Minister
may appoint some other person to act in his place during
such period having regard to the provisions of subsection
(3) of section 5.
Securities and Exchange Commission of 5
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(4) An appointed or nominated member of the
Commission who, without leave of the Commission first
being obtained, absents himself from three consecutive
meetings of the Commission shall be deemed to have vacated
his office.
(5) A member of the Commission being the Chairman, is
absent for three consecutive meetings of the Commission
shall be deemed to have vacated his office.
9. (1) A person shall be disqualified from being Disqualifications
and grounds for
appointed or nominated or from continuing as a member of
removal
the Commission if he -
(a) is or becomes a member of Parliament, or a member
of any Provincial Council or any local authority;
(b) is or becomes a director, partner or employee of an
entity licensed or registered by the Commission;
(c) is or becomes of unsound mind or incapable of
carrying out his duties;
(d) is or has become an undischarged bankrupt;
(e) is or has been convicted of an offence which
involves moral turpitude;
(f) has been previously removed from office.
(2) The Minister may by Order published in the Gazette
remove a member of the Commission from continuing as a
member if his continuation in the office is detrimental to the
interests of the Commission.
6 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
Meetings of the 10. (1) The Chairman of the Commission shall, if
Commission present, preside at all meetings of the Commission. In the
absence of the Chairman from any such meetings, the
members present shall elect one amongst themselves to
preside at such meeting.
(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Commission shall
be five members.
(3) The Commission may regulate the procedure in regard
to the meetings of the Commission and the transaction of
business at such meetings.
(4) All questions for decision at any meeting of the
Commission shall be decided by the vote of the majority of
the members present. In the case of an equality of votes the
member presiding shall have a casting vote.
Remuneration of 11. The members of the Commission may be paid such
members remuneration out of the Fund of the Commission as may be
determined by the Minister, in consultation with the Minister
assigned the subject of finance.
Chairman of the 12. (1) If the Chairman of the Commission is, by reason
Commission of illness or absence from Sri Lanka temporarily unable to
perform the duties of his office the Minister shall nominate
another member of the Commission to act in his place.
(2) The Chairman may at any time resign from the office
of Chairman by a letter addressed to the Minister.
(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), the term of
office of the Chairman shall be his period of membership of
the Commission.
Members to 13. A member who is directly or indirectly interested in
disclose any any decision that is to be taken on any matter by the
interest Commission shall disclose the nature of such interest at the
meeting of the Commission where such decision is being
Securities and Exchange Commission of 7
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
taken, and such disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes
of the meetings of the Commission and such member shall
not take part in any deliberation or decision of the
Commission with regard to that matter, and shall withdraw
from such meeting while such deliberation is in progress or
such decision is being made.
14. No proceeding, act or decision of the Commission Proceedings,
shall be invalidated by reason only of the existence of a acts or decisions
not invalidated
vacancy among its members or of any defect in the
by reason of a
appointment of a member thereof. vacancy
15. (1) The seal of the Commission shall be in the Seal of the
custody of the Commission. Commission
(2) The seal of the Commission may be altered in such
manner as may be determined by the Commission.
(3) The seal of the Commission shall not be affixed to
any instrument or document except in the presence of one
member of the Commission and the Director-General of the
Commission or in the absence of the Director-General, in
the presence of any two members of the Commission, who
shall sign the instrument or document in token of their
presence.
CHAPTER 3
POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION
16. The powers, duties and functions of the Commission Principal
shall be- functions,
powers and
duties of the
(a) to advise the Government on the development of
Commission
the securities market and to assist in the effective
implementation of the policies and programmes of
the Government with respect to the securities
market;
