Securities and Exchange Commission of 93
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(3) The register for the market intermediary and the
registered person shall contain –
(a) the name of the market intermediary or the
registered person;
(b) the business address of the market intermediary or
the registered person;
(c) the type of licence held by the market intermediary
or the type of registration held by the registered
person;
(d) the date the licence was granted to the market
intermediary or the date the registration was granted
to the registered person;
(e) the names of registered persons acting for or
employed by the market intermediary; and
(f) any other matter that the Commission considers
appropriate.
(4) The Commission may make necessary amendments
in the register with respect to a market intermediary or a
registered person where the licence held by the market
intermediary is cancelled or suspended or where the
registration held by the registered person is cancelled or
suspended under this Act.
PART IV
Trade In Unlisted Securities
116. The object and purpose of this Part shall be – Object and
purpose of this
(a) to provide a platform through a recognised market Part
operator for sale and purchase of unlisted securities
in Sri Lanka to local and overseas investors in a
transparent manner; and
94 Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
(b) to facilitate the disclosure of information relating
to unlisted securities to local and overseas investors
through a recognised market operator in a
transparent manner.
CHAPTER 1
ESTABLISHMENT OF A RECOGNISED MARKET OPERATOR
Establishment of 117. A person shall not act as a market operator under
a market this Part unless such person is registered with the
operator Commission or exempted from such registration by the
Commission.
Requirement to 118. (1) For the purposes of section 117, the Commission
register a market may upon application made by a person, register the person
operator as a recognised market operator or exempt from such
registration subject to any terms and conditions as the
Commission considers necessary.
(2) The Commission may exempt a market operator from
registration under section 117 having regard to the criteria
specified under section 119 subject to such terms and
conditions as may be specified by the Commission.
(3) The Commission may, from time to time, vary, amend
or revoke any terms and conditions imposed under
subsection (1).
(4) The Commission may notwithstanding the exemption
granted under subsection (2), withdraw such exemption and
may require such person to be registered if the Commission
deems it necessary in the interests of investors.
Application for 119. (1) An application to be registered as a recognised
registration market operator shall be accompanied by such documents
and information and in such form as the Commission may
specify by rules.
(2) An application by such person for registration under
this section shall provide documents to prove that such
person has experience in trades executed on a platform to
the satisfaction of the Commission.
