12 securities and exchange commission of sri lanka act, no. 19 of 2021 chapter 4 director-general and the staff of the commission director-general 19. (1) the minister shall on the recommendation of the commission, appoint a director-general of the commission, who shall be its chief executive officer. the conditions of employment including remuneration of the director-general shall be determined by the commission. (2) the commission shall not recommend the appointment of any person as the director-general of the commission, if such person- (a) has been previously found guilty of serious misconduct by a court or tribunal or has been subject to a disciplinary action by a regulatory body; (b) has been previously dismissed from office; or (c) has committed a breach of the provisions of this act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder. (3) the director-general shall, subject to the general direction and control of the commission, be charged with the direction of the affairs and transactions of the commission, the exercise, discharge and performance of its powers, functions and duties, and the administration and control of the officers and servants of the commission. (4) the director-general may, with the approval of the commission, whenever he considers it necessary to do so, delegate to any officer and servant any power, function or duty conferred or imposed on or assigned to him by this act and such officer or servant shall exercise, discharge and perform such power, function or duty subject to the general or special directions of the director-general. securities and exchange commission of 13 sri lanka act, no. 19 of 2021 (5) the minister may on the recommendation of the commission remove the director-general appointed under subsection (1), from office if his continuation in office is detrimental to the interests of the commission: provided, that the commission shall grant an opportunity to the director-general of being heard, prior to such removal. 20. (1) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any staff of the commission other written law, the commission may create cadre positions and employ officers and servants as it considers necessary for the efficient discharge of its functions and may fix their salaries and wages or other remuneration, benefits and pensions of such servants and officers for the purposes of carrying out its functions and duties under the provisions of this act. (2) the commission may establish and regulate pension and provident funds and schemes for the benefit of the director-general and its officers and servants and their dependents and nominees with the concurrence of the minister assigned the subject of finance and may make contributions to any such fund or scheme. (3) the commission shall promote and sponsor the training of technical personnel on the subjects of securities markets, finance, law, money economics and other subjects and for this purpose, the commission shall be authorised to defray the costs of study, in sri lanka or abroad of the officers and servants of the commission who are of proven merit as determined by the commission. 14 securities and exchange commission of sri lanka act, no. 19 of 2021 (4) the commission shall establish a code of conduct which shall be applicable to the officers and servants of the commission. (5) the commission shall not appoint any person to the staff of the commission where such person- (a) has been previously found guilty of serious misconduct by a court or tribunal or has been subject to a disciplinary action by a regulatory body; (b) has been previously dismissed from office; or (c) has committed a breach of the provisions of this act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder. (6) at the request of the commission any officer in the public service may, with the consent of the officer and the public service commission established by the constitution be temporarily appointed to the commission for such period as may be determined by the commission or with like consent, be permanently appointed to such staff. (7) where any officer in the public service is temporarily appointed to the staff of the commission, the provisions of subsection (2) of section 14 of the national transport commission act, no. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to such officer. (8) where any officer in the public service is permanently appointed to the staff of the commission, the provisions of subsection (3) of section 14 of the national transport commission act, no. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to such officer. (9) where the commission employs any person who has agreed to serve the government for a specified period, any period of service to the commission by that person shall be regarded as service to the government for the purpose of discharging the obligations of such agreement. securities and exchange commission of 15 sri lanka act, no. 19 of 2021 (10) the commission may with the consent of such officer or servant propose secondment of its officers or servants to other state institutions or regulatory authorities in sri lanka or abroad for a period not exceeding three years on an assignment agreed upon between such institution or the authority and the commission. the period of secondment shall be deemed to be considered as service to the commission. 21. (1) at the request of the commission any officer or appointment of officers of servant of a public corporation may, with the consent of public such officer or servant and the governing board of such corporations to the staff of the corporation, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the commission commission for such period as may be determined by the commission or with like consent be permanently appointed to the staff of the commission on such terms and conditions, including those relating to pension or provident fund rights, as may be agreed upon by the commission and the governing board of such corporation. (2) where any person is appointed whether temporarily or permanently under subsection (1) to the staff of the commission he shall be subject to the same disciplinary control as any other officers or servants of the commission. 22. all members, the director general, officers and members, officers and servants of the commission shall be deemed to be public servants of the servants within the meaning and for the purposes of the commission deemed to be penal code (chapter 19) and of the code of criminal public servants procedure act, no.15 of 1979. 16 securities and exchange commission of sri lanka act, no. 19 of 2021 commission 23. the commission shall be deemed to be a scheduled deemed to be a institution within the meaning of the bribery act (chapter scheduled 26), and the provisions of that act shall be construed institution within the accordingly. meaning of the bribery act part ii markets and market institutions object and 24. the object and purpose of this part shall be – purpose of this part (a) to promote a fair, orderly, transparent and efficient securities market in sri lanka through the establishment of market institutions; (b) to enhance effective and efficient functioning of a securities market; and (c) to mitigate systemic risk associated with securities markets. chapter 1 exchanges prohibition 25. (1) a person shall not establish, operate or maintain against an exchange except by authority of a licence granted by the establishing an commission. unlicensed exchange (2) a person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, after summary trial before a magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty-five million rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both such fine and imprisonment. application to 26. (1) an application for a licence to operate as an operate an exchange shall be made to the commission in such manner exchange and form together with such documents as may be specified by rules made by the commission accompanied by such fees as may be prescribed.