118 securities and exchange commission of sri lanka act, no. 19 of 2021 part vi finance object and 154. the object and purpose of this part shall be- purpose of this part (a) to establish various funds for the proper functioning of the commission; and (b) to establish a fund to provide limited compensation to investors who have no other remedy. chapter 1 funds of the commission levy of a cess 155. (1) there shall be charged, levied and paid a cess at such rates as may be prescribed by the minister by regulations published in the gazette on every purchase and sale of securities recorded in an exchange or notified to it under its rules by both the purchaser and the seller. different rates may be prescribed in respect of different classes of securities. (2) the cess imposed under this section shall be in addition to any other tax or cess levied under any other law. cess fund 156. (1) there shall be established a fund called the “cess fund” to be administered by the commission to which shall be credited the proceeds of the cess imposed under section 155. (2) the monies lying to the credit of the cess fund shall only be utilized for the purpose of – (a) developing the securities market; (b) enhancing monies lying to the credit of the compensation fund or the fund of the commission established under this part; securities and exchange commission of 119 sri lanka act, no. 19 of 2021 (c) meeting all expenditure incurred by the commission in the management, administration, and operation of the commission in the exercise, performance and discharge of its duties and functions; (d) granting loans for housing, educational, health and transport purposes to the staff of the commission as the commission deems appropriate; (e) to make contributions to pension and provident funds and other schemes established for the benefit of the director general and its officers and servants and their dependents and nominees; and (f) to defray the costs of study, in sri lanka or abroad of the officers and servants of the commission who are of proven merit as determined by the commission. (3) any excess money lying to the credit of the cess fund may be invested by the commission in such manner as may be determined by the commission for the purpose of developing the cess fund. 157. (1) the commission shall have its own fund. fund of the commission (2) there shall be paid into the fund – (a) all such sums of money as may be voted upon from time to time by parliament for the use of the commission; (b) all sums of money as may be charged as costs incurred in carrying out all inspections under the provisions of this act or paid as fees under the provisions of this act; 120 securities and exchange commission of sri lanka act, no. 19 of 2021 (c) such sums of money that are recovered, as reimbursements for costs incurred in carrying out investigations and institution of legal proceedings in respect of contraventions under the provisions of this act; (d) all such sums of money as may be received by the commission by way of donations, gifts or grants from the consolidated fund, the government or a foreign government, state agencies and from multilateral and bilateral agencies whether within or outside sri lanka; and (e) such sums of money as may be credited from the cess fund. (3) there shall be paid out of the fund all such sums of money required to defray the expenditure incurred by the commission in the exercise, discharge and performance of its powers, functions and duties. (4) monies belonging to the fund of the commission may be invested by the commission in such manner as may be determined by the commission. chapter 2 fund to provide compensation to investors compensation 158. (1) there shall be established a fund called the fund “compensation fund,” by the commission for the purpose of granting limited compensation to any investor who suffers pecuniary loss as a result of any licensed stock broker or stock dealer being found by the commission as being incapable of meeting its contractual obligations. (2) the compensation fund shall consist of - (a) such sums of money as may be voted upon by parliament;