92 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
Payment of tax 96. (1) Each trustee of a trust shall be responsible for
on realisation of performing any duties or obligations imposed by this Act
investment assets on the trust in relation to its taxable income consisting of a
by partnerships
gain from the realisation of an investment asset, including
and trusts.
the payment of tax on that gain.
(2) Each partner in a partnership shall be responsible for
performing any duties or obligations imposed by this Act
on the partnership in relation to its taxable income consisting
of a gain from the realisation of an investment asset, including
the payment of tax on that gain.
(3) When a trust has more than one trustee, the duties and
obligations imposed under this section on the trustee of the
trust shall apply jointly and severally to the trustees but
may be discharged by any of them.
(4) The duties and obligations imposed under this section
on the partners in a partnership shall apply jointly and
severally to the partners but may be discharged by any of
them.
(5) The executor shall be responsible for performing any
duties or obligations imposed by this Act in respect of a
deceased person in relation to their taxable income consisting
of a gain from the realisation of an investment asset, including
the payment of tax on that gain.
PART II
CHAPTER IX
ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS
Division I: Administration of this Act
Officers. 97. (1) For the purposes of this Act, there shall be
appointed a Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue, such
number of Deputy Commissioner-Generals of Inland
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 93
Revenue, Senior Commissioners of Inland Revenue,
Commissioners of Inland Revenue, Senior Deputy
Commissioners of Inland Revenue, Deputy Commissioners
of Inland Revenue and Assistant Commissioners of Inland
Revenue.
(2) A tax official exercising or performing or discharging
any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on or
assigned to the Commissioner- General by any provision of
this Act, shall be deemed for all purposes to be authorized
by the Commissioner-General to exercise, perform or
discharge that power, duty or function until the contrary is
proved.
(3) The Commissioner-General or an officer of the
Department authorised by the Commissioner-General to
perform any functions under this Act shall not be personally
liable in civil proceedings in connection with any act done
by the person in good faith in the discharge of those functions.
(4) The Commissioner-General may specify such forms
as the Commissioner-General considers appropriate for the
purposes of this Act.
98. (1) The Commissioner-General may delegate to a tax Delegation of
official of the Department a power or duty conferred or powers.
imposed on him by this Act.
(2) The Commissioner-General may delegate a power or
duty to a specific individual tax official within the
Department.
(3) Subject to such conditions as the Commissioner-
General may specify the Commissioner-General may provide
that any information, declaration, or document required to
be furnished to the Commissioner-General is to be supplied
to tax officials as the Commissioner-General may nominate.
94 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(4) A delegation under this section shall not prevent the
Commissioner-General from performing a delegated power,
duty, or function.
(5) A tax official shall not exercise a power, or perform a
duty or function under this Act; that –
(a) relates to a person in respect of which the tax official
has or had a personal, family, business, professional,
employment, or financial relationship; or
(b) otherwise presents a conflict of interest.
(6) A tax official exercising or performing or discharging
any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on or
assigned to the Commissioner-General by any provision of
this Act, shall be deemed for all purposes to be authorised to
exercise, perform or discharge that power, duty or function
until the contrary is proved.
(7) A Commissioner and Senior Deputy Commissioner
may exercise any power conferred on any Deputy
Commissioner or Assistant Commissioner by any provision
of this Act.
Inland Revenue 99. (1) The Minister in charge of the subject of Finance
Incentive Fund. shall establish the Inland Revenue Incentive Fund
(hereinafter referred to as the “Fund”).
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund in respect of each
year, such sums as may be appropriated annually by
Parliament for the purpose of the Fund.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund –
(a) all sums required for the welfare of officers of
the Department, in accordance with any
scheme approved by the Minister; and
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 95
(b) group incentive allowances to any class or
category of officers of the Department, in
accordance with such scheme as may be
approved by the Minister, to ensure efficiency
in the administration of any Act administered
by the Commissioner-General.
(4) The Commissioner General or any tax official specially
authorised by him in that behalf, shall administer the Fund
in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the
regulations.
100. (1) Except as provided for in subsection (3), (4), Confidentiality.
(5) or (7) every person having a duty under this Act or being
employed in the administration of this Act, shall regard as
secret and confidential all information and documents the
person has received in an official capacity in relation to a
specific taxpayer, and may disclose that information only to
the following persons:-
(a) the employees of the Department and of the
Customs Department in the course, and for the
purpose, of carrying out their duties;
(b) the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance in
the course, and for the purpose, of carrying out
supervision of the Department;
(c) the Auditor-General or any person authorised by
the Auditor-General, only when such disclosure is
necessary for the purposes of official duties;
(d) tax authorities of a foreign country, in accordance
with an international agreement entered into with a
specific authority;
(e) the Attorney-General for the purpose any criminal
proceedings or civil proceedings where actions are
instituted by the State or actions filed against the
96 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
State or where the opinion or advice of the Attorney-
General has been sought in writing by the
Department of Inland Revenue;
(f) a court, in a proceeding to establish a taxpayer’s
tax liability or responsibility for an offence;
(g) the Land Reform Commission, only when such
disclosure is necessary for the purposes of official
duties;
(h) the Controller of Exchange for the purpose of
prosecuting violations of the Exchange Control
Act;
(i) a Commission appointed under the Commissions
of Inquiry Act, in an investigation into the affairs
of any person or any person’s spouse or child; and
(j) the Commission to Investigate Allegations of
Bribery or Corruption established under the
Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery
or Corruption Act, No. 19 of 1994.
(2) A person who is permitted to disclose information
under subsection (1) shall maintain secrecy except to the
minimum extent necessary to achieve the object for which
disclosure is permitted.
(3) A person who receives information under subsection
(1) shall maintain secrecy except to the minimum extent
necessary to achieve the object for which the information
was received.
(4) The Commissioner-General may disclose information
concerning a taxpayer’s affairs to the taxpayer or the
taxpayer’s authorised representative only after obtaining
reasonable assurance of the authenticity of the claim.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 97
(5) Information concerning a taxpayer may be disclosed
to another person with the taxpayer’s written consent.
(6) The obligation as to secrecy imposed by this section
shall continue to apply in respect of any person
notwithstanding that the person ceases to be appointed under
or employed in carrying out the provisions of this Act.
(7) The Commissioner-General may publish a list of the
names of taxpayers –
(a) who are in default of tax under section 152;
(b) who have failed to file a return as required; or
(c) on whom an understatement penalty has been
imposed under Chapter XVII.
101. The Commissioner-General may pay any Informants.
individual who provides information that results in the
assessment and collection of income not disclosed by another
person an amount considered reasonable in the
circumstances from sums appropriated by Parliament for that
purpose.
Division II: Taxpayer Registration and Taxpayer
Identification Numbers
102. (1) Every person liable to furnish a return of income Registration.
for a year of assessment, and who has not already registered,
shall register with the Commissioner-General not later than
thirty days after the end of the basis period for that year.
(2) A person registering under this section, shall submit
an application for registration in the form and manner
specified by the Commissioner-General and provide such
information to the Commissioner-General as may be required
by him under this Act.
98 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(3) The Minister with the consent of the Commissioner-
General may specify additional classes of persons required
to register under this section.
(4) The Commissioner-General shall register any person
whom the Commissioner-General considers to have fulfilled
the requirements for registration and assign the person a
Taxpayer Identification Number (hereinafter referred to as
“TIN”).
(5) Where the Commissioner-General refuses to register a
person who has applied for registration, the Commissioner-
General shall serve the person with written notice of the
refusal within fourteen days of making the decision with
reasons.
Taxpayer 103. (1) The Commissioner-General shall assign a
identification unique TIN to every taxpayer which shall be used in all
number. correspondence relating to the administration of this Act.
(2) The Commissioner-General may assign a TIN to a
person who is not a taxpayer, but who –
(a) makes payments which are subject to tax in the
hands of the recipient;
(b) is, or may be, required to file a tax return;
(c) is required under this Act or regulation made under
this Act to furnish a TIN to another person; or
(d) is required to register under subsection (3) of section
102.
(3) To the extent specified, a person is required –
(a) to include the person’s TIN on documents
relating to a tax to which this Act applies;
and
(b) to furnish the TIN to another person
designated in regulations as a person who is
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 99
required to furnish tax information with
respect to the person furnishing the number.
(4) The Commissioner-General shall include the TIN on
all correspondence sent to a taxpayer concerning the
taxpayer’s tax liability, and the taxpayer shall include the
TIN number on returns and correspondence with the
Commissioner-General.
(5) A taxpayer shall notify the Commissioner-General in
writing of a change in name (including business name or
other trading name), address, place of business, or nature of
the taxable activity carried on no later than thirty days
following the date of the change.
Division III: Public Rulings
104. (1) To achieve consistency in the administration Binding public
of this Act and to provide guidance to the general public rulings.
and officers of the Department, the Commissioner-General
may issue public rulings setting out the Commissioner-
General’s interpretation of the application of this Act.
(2) A public ruling shall be binding on the Commissioner-
General until withdrawn.
(3) A public ruling shall not be binding on taxpayers.
105. (1) The Commissioner-General may make a public Making a public
ruling by publishing a notice of the public ruling in the ruling.
Gazette and on the Department’s website.
(2) A public ruling shall state that it is a public ruling and
have a heading specifying the subject matter of the ruling
by which it can be identified and an identification number.
(3) A public ruling shall have effect from the date specified
in the public ruling or, when no date is specified, from the
date the ruling is published in the Gazette and on the
Department’s website.
100 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(4) A public ruling shall set out the Commissioner-
General’s opinion on the application of the provisions of
this Act in the circumstances specified in the ruling and
shall not be a decision of the Commissioner-General for the
purposes of this Act or any other law.
Withdrawal of a 106. (1) The Commissioner-General may withdraw a
public ruling. public ruling, in whole or part, by publishing a notice of the
withdrawal in the Gazette and on the Department’s website.
(2) In the event a public ruling is subsequently found to
be inconsistent in whole or in part with any law such public
ruling shall be withdrawn in whole or in part by the
Commissioner-General to the extent necessary to overcome
such inconsistency.
(3) The withdrawal of a public ruling, in whole or part,
shall have effect from the date specified in the notice of
withdrawal.
Division IV: Private Rulings
Private rulings. 107. (1) A taxpayer may apply to the Commissioner-
General for a private ruling setting out the Commissioner
General’s position regarding the application of this Act to a
transaction entered into, or proposed to be entered into, by
the taxpayer.
(2) The Commissioner-General shall appoint a committee
of senior officers of the Department known as the
Interpretation Committee to review requests for private
rulings and to issue private rulings as appropriate on behalf
of the Commissioner-General.
(3) An application under this section shall be in
writing and -
(a) include full details of the transaction to which the
application relates together with all documents
relevant to the transaction;
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 101
(b) specify precisely the question on which the ruling
is required; and
(c) give a full statement setting out the opinion of the
applicant as to the application of this Act to the
transaction.
(4) Subject to section 108, the Commissioner-General
shall, within ninety days of receipt of the application under
this section issue a private ruling on the question to the
applicant.
(5) If the taxpayer has made a full and true disclosure of
all aspects of the transaction relevant to the making of a
private ruling and the transaction has proceeded in all
material respects as described in the taxpayer’s application
for the private ruling, the private ruling shall be binding on
the Commissioner-General as against the taxpayer identified
but shall not be binding on the Commissioner-General as
against any other taxpayer.
(6) A private ruling shall not be binding on a taxpayer.
(7) The Commissioner-General may specify reasonable
fees to be charged in relation to an application for a private
ruling.
108. (1) The Commissioner-General may refuse an Refusing an
application for a private ruling where- application for a
private ruling.
(a) the Commissioner-General has already decided the
question that is the subject of the application in
any of the following:-
(i) a notice of a tax assessment has been served
on the applicant;
(ii) notice or other guidance issued by the
Commissioner-General that is in force; or
102 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(iii) a ruling published under section 111 that is
in force;
(b) the application relates to a question that is the
subject of a tax audit in relation to the applicant or
an objection lodged by the applicant;
(c) the application is frivolous or vexatious;
(d) the transaction to which the application relates has
not been carried out and there are reasonable
grounds to believe that the transaction will not be
carried out;
(e) the applicant has not provided the tax official with
sufficient information to make a private ruling;
(f) in the opinion of the Commissioner-General, it
would be unreasonable to comply with the
application, having regard to the resources needed
to comply with the application and any other matters
the tax officer considers relevant; or
(g) the making of the ruling involves the application
of a tax avoidance provision.
(2) The Commissioner-General shall serve the applicant
with a written notice of a decision to refuse to make a private
ruling under this section.
Making a 109. (1) The Commissioner-General may make a private
private ruling. ruling by serving written notice of the private ruling on the
recipient of the ruling.
(2) The Commissioner-General may make a private ruling
on the basis of assumptions about a future event or other
matters as considered appropriate.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 103
(3) A private ruling shall state that it is a private ruling,
set out the question ruled on, and identify the following:-
(a) the taxpayer;
(b) the tax period to which the ruling applies;
(c) the transaction to which the ruling relates; and
(d) any assumptions on which the ruling is based.
(4) A private ruling is made when the applicant is served
with written notice of the ruling and the ruling shall remain
in force until withdrawn under section 110.
(5) A private ruling shall set out the Commissioner-
General’s opinion on the question raised in the ruling
application and shall not be a decision of the Commissioner-
General that can be formally reviewed, appealed or otherwise
objected to, for the purposes of this Act or any other law. For
the avoidance of doubt, this subsection shall not limit in
any way a taxpayer’s rights with respect to any tax assessment
served on the taxpayer to which the ruling relates.
110. (1) The Commissioner-General may, for reasonable Withdrawal of a
cause, withdraw a private ruling, in whole or part, by written private ruling.
notice served on the applicant.
(2) In the event a private ruling is subsequently found to
be inconsistent in whole or part with any law, such private
ruling shall be withdrawn in whole or part by the
Commissioner-General to the extent necessary to overcome
such inconsistency.
(3) The withdrawal of a private ruling, in whole or part,
shall have effect from the date specified in the notice of
withdrawal.
104 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
Publication of 111. (1) The Commissioner-General shall publish a
private rulings. ruling made under section 109 on the Department’s website
except that the identity of the applicant to whom the ruling
relates must not be indicated in the publication.
(2) When a ruling has been withdrawn in accordance with
section 110, the Commissioner-General shall immediately
publish a notice of withdrawal on the Department’s website
stating that the ruling ceases to be binding with effect from
the date determined under subsection (3) of section 110.
Division V: Communications, Forms and Notices
Communications 112. (1) A notice or statement, issued or an agreement
with taxpayers entered into by the Commissioner-General or any tax
and other
official to a taxpayer or other person shall be effective if
persons.
it is authorised by law and in writing, and signed by a tax
official.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in this Act or any other
law, a notice or other document required to be served on a
person by the Commissioner General may be served in the
following manner:-
(a) delivering it personally to the person or the person’s
nominated officer;
(b) delivering it to the person’s usual or last known
place of business or residence in Sri Lanka;
(c) sending it by registered post to the person’s usual
or last known place of business or residence in Sri
Lanka; or
(d) transmitting it electronically in accordance with
section 113.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 105
(3) Where a person –
(a) refuses to accept delivery of a letter addressed
to the person; or
(b) fails to collect a letter after being informed
that the letter is available for collection at a
post office,
the letter shall be treated as having been served on the person
on the date on which the person refused to accept delivery
of the letter or was informed that the letter was at the post
office.
(4) A notice or other document sent by registered mail
shall be considered served four days succeeding the day
when posted where the address is in Sri Lanka and, where
the address is not in Sri Lanka, twenty days succeeding the
day when posted.
(5) A signature written on a notice, statement, agreement,
return, form, declaration, table, certificate or other document
and purporting to be the signature of a tax official shall be
considered to be the signature of that person unless the
contrary is proved.
113. (1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Application of
electronic tax
Act, the Commissioner-General may authorise the following
system.
to be done either in writing or electronically through a
computer system or mobile electronic device:-
(a) the lodging of an application for registration under
this Act;
(b) the filing of a tax return or other document under
this Act;
106 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(c) the payment of tax under this Act;
(d) the paying of a refund under this Act;
(e) the service of any document by the Commissioner-
General, with such documents treated as being
served on the date they are transmitted
electronically; or
(f) the doing of any other act or thing that is required
or permitted to be done under this Act.
(2) The Commissioner-General may direct a person to do
anything referred to in subsection (1) electronically through
the use of a computer system or mobile electronic device.
(3) The Commissioner-General may specify conditions,
including additional conditions, for the effective use
of the Revenue Administration Management Information
System.
(4) A person who files a tax return and pays tax
electronically under this section shall continue to file tax
returns and pay tax in that manner unless otherwise required
or permitted by the Act or authorised by the Commissioner-
General.
Forms and 114. (1) The Commissioner-General shall specify the
notices.
forms, notices, declarations, returns, statements, tables, and
other documents and publish them for the efficient
administration of this Act.
(2) The documents referred in subsection (1) shall be
available to the public on the website of the Department or
at its main office and at other locations, or by mail or
electronically, as the Commissioner-General may determine.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 107
115. The Commissioner-General may specify the Authorized
circumstances under which a taxpayer may designate an representatives.
authorized representative to communicate with the
Department on behalf of the taxpayer and shall accept a
designation made in accordance with such circumstances.
116. (1) No notice, assessment, form, certificate, or other Defect does not
affect validity.
proceeding purporting to be in accordance with the provisions
of this Act shall be quashed, or deemed to be void or voidable
for want of form or be affected by reason of a mistake, defect
or omission, if it is in substance and effect in conformity
with, or according to the intent and meaning of this Act, and
where the person assessed or intended to be assessed or
affected thereby, is reasonably described or identified.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1),
an assessment shall not be affected or impugned by reason
of –
(a) a mistake as to the name or surname of the person
chargeable, the amount of income assessed, or the
amount of tax charged; or
(b) any variance between the assessment and the notice
thereof,
if the notice of such assessment is duly served on the person
intended to be charged and contains in substance and effect
all relevant particulars.
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1)
and subsection (2), no notice, assessment, form, certificate,
or other proceeding purporting to be in accordance with the
provisions of this Act shall be quashed, or deemed to be
void or voidable or be affected by reason of any variance in
the designation of the tax official who signed or executed
such notice, assessment, form, certificate or other proceeding
as the case may be.
108 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
Rectification of 117. When a notice of a tax assessment or other
mistakes. document served by the Commissioner-General under
this Act contains a mistake that is apparent from the
record and the mistake does not involve a dispute as to
the interpretation of the law or facts of the case, the
Commissioner-General may, for the purposes of rectifying
the mistake, amend the assessment or other document
any time before the expiry of four years from the date
of service of the notice of the tax assessment or other
document.
Taxpayer’s right 118. Upon request by a taxpayer, an authorized officer
to information.
of the Department shall –
(a) inform the taxpayer of the status of the taxpayer’s
account with respect to tax;
(b) provide a copy of a tax return filed by the taxpayer;
and
(c) provide a copy of any written agreement entered
into with the Commissioner-General.
Due dates. 119. (1) When the last day for performing an act
specified under this Act falls on a day on which the
Department is not open to the public for business, the
act shall be considered timely if it is performed on the
next succeeding day on which the Department is open for
business.
(2) A declaration, appeal, or other document, other
than a payment, shall be considered filed on the date it
is stamped, as received by the Department or, in the case
of filing by post, within four days of the date of the
postmark.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 109
CHAPTER X
RECORD KEEPING AND INFORMATION COLLECTION
120. (1) A taxpayer engaged in business or investment Accounts and
activity or required under this Act to make a return shall records.
keep and maintain in Sri Lanka records and accounts
sufficient to record all transactions and to ascertain the gains
and profits made or the loss incurred in respect of those
transactions.
(2) The circumstances under which a person engaged in
business or investment activity shall have accounts prepared
by an approved accountant and the form by which an
approved accountant shall attest to the accuracy and
completeness of the accounts prepared shall be prescribed
by regulations.
(3) Where the Commissioner-General is of the opinion
that proper records or books of account are not being kept in
accordance with subsection (1) or (2), or where no records or
books of account are being kept, by any person carrying on
business then in addition to prosecution for an offence, the
Commissioner-General may direct such person to keep such
records or books of account as the Commissioner-General
may specify.
(4) The records or books of accounts required by this
section shall be kept at the place of business or investment
activity of the person unless the Commissioner-General
approves of them being kept at some other place.
(5) In addition to the records and accounts referred to in
subsections (1) and (2), a taxpayer shall also retain source
documents and underlying documentation utilized in the
creation of the records and accounts.
(6) A person required to prepare or retain records of a
transaction under this Act shall retain such records—
(a) for a period of five years from the date on which the
transaction took place; or
