16 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
calculating income from an investment and unrelieved losses
from an investment so that –
(a) unrelieved losses from a business may be deducted
in calculating income from an investment;
(b) unrelieved losses from an investment shall be
deducted only in calculating income from an
investment.
(5) Subject to section 194, a gain from the realisation of
an investment asset shall not be reduced by any loss on the
disposal of another investment asset.
(6) In this section –
“loss” of a person for a year of assessment from a
business or investment shall be calculated as the
excess of amounts deducted in accordance with
this Act (other than under this section or subsection
(5) of section 25) in calculating the person’s
income from the business or investment over
amounts included in calculating that income; and
“unrelieved loss” means the amount of a loss that has
not been deducted in calculating a person’s
income under this section or subsection (5) of
section 25.
CHAPTER III
CALCULATION OF THE INCOME TAX
Division 1: Method of Accounting
Change in the 20. (1) The year of assessment means the period of
year of twelve months commencing on the first day of April of any
assessment.
year and ending on the thirty first day of March in the
immediately succeeding year.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 17
(2) A trust or company may apply to the Commissioner-
General for a change to its year of assessment and the
Commissioner-General may, on such terms and conditions
as the Commissioner-General thinks fit, approve the change.
The Commissioner-General may revoke an approval if a trust
or company fails to comply with a term or condition attached
to the approval.
(3) A change in a trust or company’s year of assessment
shall result in altering the time at which the trust or company
shall pay tax by instalments and on assessment under
Chapter VIII.
21. (1) Unless otherwise provided by this Act, the timing Method of
of inclusions and deductions in calculating a person’s accounting.
income shall be made according to generally accepted
accounting principles.
(2) An individual shall account for income tax purposes
on a cash basis in calculating the individual’s income from
an employment or investment.
(3) An individual or entity conducting business shall
account for income tax purposes on an accrual basis.
(4) A person shall account for income tax purposes the
income from sources other than the sources referred to in
subsections (2) and (3) on either a cash or accrual basis,
whichever properly computes the person’s income.
(5) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), the
Commissioner-General may by written notice require a person
to use a particular method of accounting or may approve an
application of a person to change the person’s method of
accounting. The Commissioner-General shall be satisfied
that the new method is necessary to properly compute the
person’s income.
(6) Where a person’s method of accounting changes,
adjustments shall be made in the year of assessment following
18 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
the change so that no item is omitted or taken into account
more than once.
Cash basis 22. (1) Under the cash basis of accounting, a person –
accounting.
(a) derives an amount when payment is received
by or made available to the person; and
(b) incurs an expense or other amount when it is
paid by the person.
(2) For the purpose of this section, payment received in
relation to an amount shall include –
(a) used on behalf of the person either at the instruction
of the person or under any law;
(b) reinvested, accumulated or capitalised for the
benefit of the person;
(c) credited to an account, or carried to any reserve, or
a sinking or insurance fund for the benefit of the
person; or
(d) constructive receipt.
Accrual basis 23. (1) Under the accrual basis of accounting, a person –
accounting.
(a) derives an amount when it is receivable by
the person; and
(b) incurs an expense or other amount when it is
payable by the person.
(2) An amount shall be receivable by a person when the
person becomes entitled to receive it, even if the time for
discharge of the entitlement is postponed or the entitlement
is payable by instalments.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 19
(3) An amount shall be treated as payable by the person
when all the events that determine liability have occurred
and the amount of the liability can be determined with
reasonable accuracy, but not before economic performance
with respect to the amount occurs.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (3), economic
performance occurs –
(a) with respect to the acquisition of services or assets,
at the time the services or assets are provided;
(b) with respect to the use of an asset, at the time the
asset is used; and
(c) in any other case, at the time the person makes
payment in full satisfaction of the liability.
(5) Where in calculating income on an accrual basis an
inaccuracy referred to in subsection (6) or (7) occurs –
(a) appropriate adjustments shall be made at the time
the payment is received or made to remedy the
inaccuracy, or at the time of the deemed inaccuracy;
and
(b) the Commissioner-General may require the person
to include the appropriate adjustment in the year of
assessment in which the inaccuracy originally
occurred notwithstanding the time limits specified
in Part II of this Act for the amendment of
assessments.
(6) An inaccuracy occurs –
(a) when a person is calculating for a payment of a
particular quantity to which the person is entitled
or that the person is obliged to make; and
20 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(b) subsequently that entitlement or obligation
being satisfied by a payment received or made
by the person, as the case requires, of a different
amount, including by reason of a change in
currency valuations.
(7) An inaccuracy is deemed to occur when –
(a) a person is calculating for a payment of a
particular quantity that the person is obliged
to make; and
(b) subsequently that obligation is not satisfied
by a payment being made by the person within
three years of the obligation arising.
Reverse of 24. (1) Where a person deducts an expense in calculating
amounts the person’s income and the person later recovers the
including bad
expense, the person shall, at the time of recovery, include
debts.
the amount recovered in calculating the person’s income.
(2) Where a person includes an amount in calculating the
person’s income, because of a legal obligation to do so, and
the person later refunds the amount, the person shall, at the
time of refund, shall deduct the amount refunded in
calculating the person’s income.
(3) Where, in calculating income on an accrual basis, a
person deducts an expense that the person is obliged to
make and the person later disclaims an obligation to incur
the expense, the person shall, at the time of disclaimer,
include the amount disclaimed in calculating the person’s
income.
(4) Subsection (5) shall be applicable where, in calculating
income on an accrual basis, a person includes an amount to
which the person is entitled and the person later –
(a) disclaims an entitlement to receive the amount; or
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 21
(b) in the case where the amount constitutes a debt
claim of the person, the person writes off the debt as
bad.
(5) Subject to the provisions of subsection (6), the person
may, at the time of disclaimer or write off, deduct the amount
disclaimed or written off in calculating the person’s income.
(6) Subject to section 66 (banking business activities), a
person cannot disclaim the entitlement to receive an amount
or write off a debt claim as bad unless the person has taken
reasonable steps in pursuing payment and the person
reasonably believes that the entitlement or debt claim will
not be satisfied.
Division II: Long Term Contracts
25. (1) This section shall apply to a person who Long-term
conducts a business, accounts for income tax purposes on contracts.
an accrual basis with respect to that business and is a party
to a long-term contract.
(2) Amounts to be included or deducted in calculating
the person’s income that relate to a long-term contract shall
be taken into account on the basis of the percentage of the
contract completed during each year of assessment.
(3) The percentage of completion shall be determined by
comparing the total expenses allocated to the contract and
incurred before the end of a year of assessment with the
estimated total contract expenses as determined at the time
of commencement of the contract.
(4) Subsection (5) shall apply where a long-term contract
is completed and the person has an unrelieved loss
attributable to that contract for the year of assessment in
which the contract ended or any earlier year of assessment.
An unrelieved loss of a business for a year of assessment
shall be attributable to a long-term contract to the extent
that there is a loss from the contract for the year.
22 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(5) The Commissioner-General may allow the unrelieved
loss to be carried back and treated as an unrelieved loss of an
earlier year of assessment for the purpose of section 19. The
amount carried back shall be limited to the profit, if any,
from the contract for the year of assessment to which the loss
is carried back.
(6) A profit or a loss from a long-term contract for a year
of assessment shall be determined by comparing amounts
included in income under the contract with deductions under
the contract for that year.
(7) In this section –
“long-term contract” means a contract –
(a) for manufacture, installation or construction
or, in relation to each, the performance of
related services; and
(b) which is not completed within twelve months
of the date on which work under the contract
commences.
“unrelieved loss”, with respect to a business, shall
have the meaning given in section 19.
Foreign 26. (1) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), this section
currency and shall apply to a person who is a financial institution where,
financial
under the provisions in Division II or IV of Chapter II, that
instruments.
person shall include an amount or may deduct an amount in
relation to a financial instrument in calculating income from
a business or investment.
(2) The time at which the amount is to be included or
deducted shall be determined in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. Those principles also
determine to whom the amount shall be allocated, its
quantum and its character.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 23
(3) In particular, generally accepted accounting principles
apply even if they require the inclusion or deduction of an
amount on a fair value accounting (mark-to-market) basis
irrespective of –
(a) the other provisions of this Division;
(b) whether or not the amounts have yet been derived,
incurred or realised; and
(c) whether or not the amounts are of a capital or
revenue nature.
(4) With the prior written approval of the Commissioner-
General a person may include an amount or deduct an
amount in relation to a financial instrument in calculating
income from a business or investment –
(a) when realised;
(b) using a specified treatment relating to the character
and timing of the amount, including where the
financial instrument has been entered into for
hedging purposes; and
(c) where the amount is in a currency other than
Sri Lankan Rupees, using a specified translation
method such as requiring that the amount must be
translated to Sri Lankan Rupees at the exchange
rate applying between the foreign currency and
Sri Lankan Rupees on the date the amount is taken
into account for the purposes of this Act.
(5) The Commissioner-General may specify the extent to
which this section applies to another person or class of
persons.
(6) In the absence of an applicable specification by the
Commissioner-General under subsection (5), an amount taken
24 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
into account under this Act shall be expressed in Sri Lankan
Rupees and, if an amount is in a currency other than Sri
Lankan Rupees, the amount shall be translated to Sri Lankan
Rupees at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka exchange rate
applying between the foreign currency and Sri Lankan
Rupees on the date the amount is taken into account for the
purposes of this Act.
Quantifying a 27. (1) A payment or amount to be included or deducted
payment or in calculating income of a person shall be quantified in the
amount.
amount, as specified by the Commissioner-General or, in
any other case, according to market value.
(2) The amount of a payment shall be quantified without
reduction for any tax withheld from the payment under
Division II of Chapter VIII of this Act.
(3) Market value shall be determined –
(a) with due regard for the arm’s length standard
referred to in section 33; but
(b) in the case of an asset, without regard to any
restriction on transfer of the asset or the fact that
the asset is not otherwise convertible into a
payment of money or money’s worth.
Indirect 28. (1) Subsection (2) shall apply where a person may
payments. indirectly benefit from a payment or direct who is to be the
payee of a payment and the payer intends the payment to
benefit the person.
(2) The Commissioner-General may, by notice in writing
served on the person –
(a) treat a person as the payee of the payment;
(b) treat a person as the payer of the payment; or
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 25
(c) treat the person as the payee of the payment and as
making an equal payment to the person who would
be considered the payee of the payment.
(3) In this section, an intention of the payer of a payment
includes an intention of an associate of the payer or a third
person under an arrangement with the payer or with an
associate of the payer.
29. (1) In calculating a person’s income from an Jointly owned
investment that is jointly owned with another person, investments.
amounts to be included and deducted shall be apportioned
among the joint owners in proportion to their interests in the
investment.
(2) Where the interests of joint owners cannot be
ascertained they shall be treated as equal.
30. Where a person or an associate of the person derives Compensation
an amount which compensates for or represents recovery of – and recovery
payments.
(a) income or an amount to be included in calculating
income, which the person expects or expected to
derive; or
(b) a loss or an amount to be deducted in calculating
income, which the person has incurred or which the
person expects or is expected to incur,
subject to section 24, the compensation amount shall be
included in calculating the income of the person and takes
its character from the amount compensated for.
31. (1) Payments made by a person under a finance lease Annuities,
or in acquiring an asset under an instalment sale shall be instalment sales
treated as interest and a repayment of capital under a loan and finance
leases.
made by the lessor or seller to the lessee or buyer, as the case
requires.
(2) Payments made to a person under an annuity shall be
treated as interest and a repayment of capital under a loan
made by the person to the payer of the annuity.
26 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(3) The interest and repayment of capital under
subsections (1) and (2) shall be calculated as if the loan were
a blended loan with interest compounded six-monthly or
such other period as the Commissioner-General may specify.
(4) Section 49 provides further provisions regarding
transfers under finance leases and instalment sales.
(5) The Commissioner-General may specify any other
forms of financing that relates to interest substitutes.
(6) For the purposes of this section –
“annuity” does not include an amount payable –
(a) under an order of court by way of payment of
alimony or maintenance; or
(b) to a spouse under a duly executed deed of
separation;
“blended loan” means a loan –
(a) under which payments by the borrower
represent in part a payment of interest and in
part a repayment of capital;
(b) where the interest part is calculated on capital
outstanding at the time of each payment; and
(c) where the rate of interest is uniform over the
term of the loan;
“finance lease” means a lease where –
(a) the lease agreement provides for transfer of
ownership following the end of the lease term
or the lessee has an option to acquire the asset
after expiry of the lease term for a fixed or
presupposed price;
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 27
(b) the lease term exceeds seventy five per cent
of the useful life of the asset;
(c) the estimated market value of the asset after
expiry of the lease term is less than twenty
per cent of its market value at the start of the
lease;
(d) in the case of a lease that commences before
the last twenty five percent of the useful life
of the asset, the present value of the minimum
lease payments equals or exceeds ninety per
cent of the market value of the asset at the
start of the lease term; or
(e) the asset is custom-made for the lessee and
after expiry of the lease term the asset will
not be of practical use to any person other
than the lessee;
“instalment sale” excludes a sale that provides for
commercial periodic interest payable on sales
proceeds outstanding; and
“lease term” includes an additional period for which
the lessee has an option to renew a lease.
32. Income arising from any Islamic financial Islamic financial
transaction shall be subject to tax in a similar manner as transactions.
equivalent in substance to non-Islamic financial transactions.
33. (1) Where an arrangement exists between associated Arm’s length
persons, the persons shall calculate their income and tax standard and
arrangements
payable according to the arm’s length standard.
between
associates.
(2) The arm’s length standard requires associated persons
to quantify, characterise, apportion and allocate amounts to
be included or deducted in calculating income to reflect
arrangements that would have been made between
independent persons.
28 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(3) The Commissioner-General may by publication in
the Gazette specify the manner in which arm’s length
agreements may be entered into for the purpose of
determining the arm’s length price.
(4) Where, in the opinion of the Commissioner-General,
a person fails to comply with subsection (1), the
Commissioner-General may make adjustments in compliance
with subsection (1) and the Commissioner-General may –
(a) re-characterise an arrangement made between
associated persons, including re-characterising debt
financing as equity financing;
(b) re-characterise the source and type of any income,
loss, amount or payment; and
(c) apportion and allocate expenditure, based on
turnover.
Income splitting. 34. (1) Where a person attempts to split income with
another person, the Commissioner-General may prevent any
reduction in tax payable by issuing a notice in writing.
(2) A notice referred to in subsection (1) may contain
amounts to be included or deducted in calculating the income
of each person or re-characterise the source and type of any
income, loss, amount or payment.
(3) A reference to a person attempting to split income
includes a reference to an arrangement between associated
persons –
(a) for the transfer of an asset (directly or indirectly),
including the transfer of an amount to be derived;
(b) where the transferor retains any legal or implicit
right to benefit (currently or in the future) from the
asset; and
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 29
(c) where one of the reasons for the transfer is to lower
tax payable by any person.
(4) Where a spouse receives income for services rendered
in any business carried on or exercised –
(a) by the other spouse; or
(b) by a partnership of which that other spouse is a
partner,
the income shall be included in the income of the spouse
who carries on the business or that partnership of which that
other spouse is a partner.
35. (1) This section shall apply where the Commissioner- Tax avoidance
General is satisfied that – schemes.
(a) a scheme has been entered into or carried out;
(b) a person has obtained a tax benefit in connection
with the scheme; and
(c) having regard to the substance of the scheme, it can
be concluded that a person, or one of the persons,
who entered into or carried out the scheme did so
for the sole or dominant purpose of enabling the
person referred to in paragraph (b) to obtain a tax
benefit.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in this Act, the
Commissioner-General may determine the tax liability of
the person who obtained the tax benefit as if the scheme had
not been entered into or carried out, or as if a reasonable
alternative to entering into or carrying out the scheme would
have instead been entered into or carried out, or that any
transaction which reduces or would have the effect of
30 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
reducing the amount of tax payable by any person is artificial
or fictitious and can make compensating adjustments to the
tax liability of any other person affected by the scheme.
(3) Where a determination or adjustment is made, the
Commissioner-General shall issue an assessment giving
effect to the determination or adjustment.
(4) The assessment made under subsection (3) shall be
served within five years from the last day of the year of
assessment to which the determination or adjustment relates.
(5) For the purposes of this section -
“scheme” includes any course of action, trust, grant,
agreement, arrangement, understanding, promise,
plan, proposal or undertaking, whether express or
implied and whether or not enforceable;
“tax benefit” means –
(a) a reduction in a liability to pay tax, including
on account of a deduction, credit, offset or
rebate;
(b) a postponement of a liability to pay tax;
(c) any other advantage arising because of a
delay in payment of tax; or
(d) anything that causes –
(i) an amount of gross revenue to be
exempt income or otherwise not subject
to tax; or
(ii) an amount that would otherwise be
subject to tax not to be taxed.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 31
CHAPTER IV
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Division I: Calculation of Gains and Losses
36. (1) A person’s gain from the realisation of an asset Calculating
or liability shall be the amount by which the sum of the gains and losses.
consideration received for the asset or liability exceeds the
cost of the asset or liability at the time of realisation.
(2) The loss of a person from the realisation of an asset or
liability shall be the amount by which the cost of the asset or
liability exceeds the sum of the consideration received for
the asset or liability at the time of realisation.
(3) A gain made by a person on the realisation of an
investment asset shall be reduced by any part of the gain
that is included in calculating the person’s income from an
employment or business.
(4) Where an asset or liability owned by a person is used
in the production of two or more sources of income, the cost
of and consideration received for the asset shall be
apportioned between each source according to the market
value of the parts used to produce each source.
37. (1) Subject to this Act, the cost of an asset of a person Cost of an asset.
shall be the sum of –
(a) expenditure incurred by the person in acquiring
the asset including, where relevant, expenditure on
construction, manufacture or production of the
asset;
(b) expenditure incurred by the person in altering,
improving, maintaining or repairing the asset;
(c) incidental expenditure incurred by the person in
acquiring and realising the asset; and
