164 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(e) a penalty of two hundred per centum of the value
of additional tax where such person has—
(i) concealed the particulars of his income, or
furnished inaccurate particulars of such
income; and
(ii) sought to evade by reason of concealment of
particulars of his income or the furnishing of
inaccurate particulars of such income,
and by notice in writing require such associated enterprise,
to pay such penalty within such period as may be specified
in such notice.
Failure to 185. (1) A person who fails to comply with a request for
comply with information properly made under this Act, within the
notice to give specified time, shall be liable for a penalty of an amount not
information.
exceeding one million rupees.
(2) Before assessing a penalty, the Commissioner-General
shall issue a notice of warning, and no penalty shall be due
under this section where the taxpayer complies with the
warning notice within thirty days of service of the notice.
CHAPTER XVIII
CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS
Criminal 186. (1) The Commissioner-General may investigate an
proceedings. offence under this Act.
(2) The Attorney-General or a delegate authorized by the
Attorney-General shall prosecute any person who commits
an offence under this Act. Such criminal proceedings shall
be initiated in the name of the Commissioner-General.
(3) Proceedings under this Act shall not affect criminal
proceedings that may be brought under any other law.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 165
(4) Where, in respect of a single act, omission or course of
conduct, a person is convicted for more than one offence
under this Chapter—
(a) the maximum term of imprisonment imposed for
the offences shall not exceed a term of five years;
and
(b) the person shall not subsequently be prosecuted
for additional offences in relation to the same act,
omission or course of conduct.
(5) No penalty shall be payable under Chapter XVII in
respect of an act, omission or course of conduct by a person
where—
(a) the person has been convicted of an offence under
this Chapter in respect of the same act, omission or
course of conduct; or
(b) the offence has been compounded by the Court
with the consent of the Commissioner-General.
187. A person who wilfully aids, abets, assists, counsels, Aiding and
incites or induces another person to commit a criminal abetting.
offence under this Chapter shall be liable on conviction to
the same punishment as if the offence had been committed
by that person.
188. Proceedings under this Chapter may be Period of
commenced where the offence alleged involves — limitations.
(a) the doing of an act, within twelve years after the
doing of the act;
(b) the failure to do an act, within twelve years after
the failure occurred or, if later, within three years
after the Commissioner-General becomes aware of
the failure; or
166 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(c) the non-disclosure or incorrect disclosure by a
person of information relating to that person’s
liability to pay tax, within three years after the
person’s correct liability to tax becomes final for
that tax period.
Tax evasion. 189. A person who wilfully evades or attempts to evade
the assessment, payment or collection of tax or who wilfully
and fraudulently claims a refund of tax to which the person
is not entitled, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding ten million
rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years
or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Impeding tax 190. (1) A person who wilfully impedes or attempts to
administration. impede the Department in the administration of this Act
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding one million rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both
such fine and imprisonment.
(2) For the purposes of this section, a person impedes the
administration of this Act if the person—
(a) fails to comply with a lawful request by a tax official
to examine documents, records, or data within the
control of the person;
(b) fails to comply with a lawful request by a tax official
to have the person appear before officials of the
Department;
(c) interferes with the lawful right of a tax official to
enter into premises;
(d) fails to file a return;
(e) uses a false taxpayer identification number or a
taxpayer identification number that does not apply
to the person;
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 167
(f) refuses to allow the Commissioner-General or
authorized officer to inspect or measure land or
refuses to deliver for inspection any map, plan, title
deed, instrument of title or other document;
(g) makes a statement to a tax official that is false or
misleading in a material particular;
(h) fails to comply with a notice issued under section
170;
(i) fails to maintain required records; or
(j) otherwise impedes the determination, assessment
or collection of tax.
191. A person who contravenes subsection (2) or (3) of Failure to
section 100 shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable preserve
on conviction to a fine not exceeding one million rupees or secrecy.
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to
both such fine and imprisonment.
192. A tax official who, in carrying out the provisions of Offences by tax
this Act— officials.
(a) directly or indirectly asks for or takes, in connection
with the officer’s duties, a payment or reward,
whether pecuniary or otherwise or a promise or
security for the payment or reward, not being a
payment or reward which the officer is lawfully
entitled to receive; or
(b) enters into or acquiesces in an agreement to do,
permit, conceal or connive at an act or thing that
is contrary to the provisions of this Act or to the
proper execution of the officer’s duty or that has
the effect that the tax revenue is or may be
defrauded,
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding one million rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both
168 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
such fine and imprisonment and the Court may, in addition
to imposing a fine, order the convicted person to pay to the
Commissioner-General an amount of tax that has not been
paid as a result of the officer’s wrongdoing and which
cannot reasonably be recovered from the person liable for
the tax.
Compounding 193. (1) Where a person has committed an offence under
of offences. this Chapter, other than an offence under section 191 or
192, the Commissioner-General may, at any time prior to
the commencement of the hearing by a Court of the
proceedings relating thereto, compound the offence and
order the person to pay the sum of money as specified by the
Commissioner-General, not exceeding the maximum amount
of the fine specified for the offence.
(2) The Commissioner-General may compound an offence
under this section only if the person concerned requests the
Commissioner-General in writing to do so.
(3) Where the Commissioner-General compounds an
offence under this section, the order referred to in subsection
(1) shall—
(a) be in writing and have attached the written request
referred to in subsection (2);
(b) specify—
(i) the offence committed;
(ii) the sum of money to be paid; and
(iii) the due date for the payment; and
(c) be served on the person who committed the offence.
(4) An order under subsection (3) shall be final and shall
not be subject to appeal.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 169
(5) Where the Commissioner-General compounds an
offence under this section, the offender shall not be liable
for prosecution or penalty in respect of that offence.
(6) The Commissioner-General’s power under this section
shall be subject to the powers of the Attorney-General under
the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,
No. 15 of 1979, and the Commissioner-General shall give
the Attorney-General a copy of the order referred to in
subsection (3) at the time it is served on the taxpayer.
(7) The amount ordered to be paid under subsection (1)
shall be recoverable as if it were tax due and payable under
this Act.
CHAPTER XIX
REGULATIONS
194. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the Regulations.
purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles and
provisions of this Act and for matters authorised to be made
or prescribed under this Act.
(2) A regulation made under this section, other than a
regulation—
(a) prescribing a penalty for; or
(b) enhancing a penalty prescribed for,
the contravention of or failure to comply with, a regulation
made under this section,
may be declared to take effect from a date earlier than the
date of its publication in the Gazette.
(3) A regulation prescribing a penalty for the
contravention of or failure to comply with a regulation, shall
not come into operation until it is approved by Parliament
and notice of such approval is published in the Gazette.
