Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 217
(Section 52)
FIFTH SCHEDULE
QUALIFYING PAYMENTS AND RELIEFS
1. The qualifying payments referred to in section 52 shall be as
follows:
(a) a donation made by an individual or entity in money to an
approved charitable institution that is:
(i) a charitable institution established for the provision
of institutionalized care for the sick or the needy; and
(ii) declared by the Minister as an approved charitable
institution for the purposes of this sub-paragraph,
subject to a maximum of –
(iia) in the case of an individual, one-third of the
taxable income of the individual or Rupees
seventy five thousand, whichever is less;
(iib) in the case of an entity, one-fifth of the taxable
income of the entity or Rupees five hundred
thousand, whichever is less;
(b) a donation made by an individual or entity in money or
otherwise to the following:-
(i) the Government of Sri Lanka;
(ii) a local authority;
(iii) any Higher Education Institution established or
deemed to be established under the Universities Act,
No. 16 of 1978;
(iv) the Buddhist and Pali University of Sri Lanka or any
Higher Educational Institution established by or under
the Buddhist and Pali University of Sri Lanka Act,
No. 74 of 1981;
(v) a fund established by the Government of Sri Lanka;
(vi) a fund established by a local authority and approved
by the Minister;
(vii) the Sevana Fund created and administered by the
National Housing Development Authority established
by the National Housing Development Authority Act,
No. 17 of 1979;
218 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(viii) a fund established by a Provincial Council and
approved by the Minister;
(ix) the Api Wenuwen Api Fund established by the Api
Wenuwen Api Fund Act, No. 6 of 2008;
(x) National Kidney Fund established under the National
Kidney Foundation of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act,
No. 34 of 2006;
(c) profits remitted to the President’s Fund established by the
President’s Fund Act, No. 7 of 1978 by a public corporation
as required by the law by or under which such corporation
is established.
2. The reliefs referred to in section 52 shall be as follows:
(a) Rs. 500,000 for each year of assessment, except that an
individual who is a trustee, receiver, executor or liquidator
shall not be entitled to deduct this personal relief as such
trustee, receiver, executor or liquidator, and the relief is
not available to be deducted against gains from the
realisation of investment assets;
(b) in the case of an individual with income from employment,
Rs. 700,000 for each year of assessment, up to the total of
the individual’s income from employment for the year;
(c) in the case of an individual with rental income from an
investment asset, an amount equal to 25 percent of the
total rental income for the year of assessment, being a
relief for the repair, maintenance, and depreciation relating
to the investment asset, but shall only be allowed to the
extent no deduction or cost is claimed for any actual
expenditures incurred by the taxpayer for the repair,
maintenance, and depreciation of the investment asset;
(d) in the case of an individual who is a senior citizen in a
year with interest income derived from a financial
institution, Rs. 1,500,000 for each year of assessment, up
to the total of the individual’s interest income for the
year;
(e) in the case of a resident individual or partner of a
partnership with income earned in foreign currency in
Sri Lanka, from any service rendered in or outside
Sri Lanka to any person to be utilized outside Sri Lanka,
Rs. 15,000,000 for each year of assessment, up to the
total of such income for the year.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 219
(Section 104)
SIXTH SCHEDULE
TEMPORARY CONCESSIONS
Enhanced Capital Allowances
1. (1) A person who invests in Sri Lanka (other than expansion
of existing business) on depreciable assets mentioned in subparagraph
(4) during a year of assessment shall be granted enhanced capital
allowances computed in accordance with this paragraph, in addition
to the capital allowances computed under the Fourth Schedule.
(2) A Capital allowance of 100% for expenses incurred by a
person, up to USD 03 million on depreciable assets mentioned in
subparagraph (4) during a year of assessment shall be granted to that
person for that year where the depreciable assets are used in a part of
Sri Lanka, other than the Northern Province.
(3) A Capital allowance of 200% for expenses incurred by a
person, that are used in the Northern Province up to USD 3 million on
depreciable assets mentioned in subparagraph (4) during a year of
assessment shall be granted to that person for that year where the
depreciable assets are used in the Northern Province.
(4) The depreciable assets referred to in subparagraphs (1) and
(2) shall be -
(a) Class 1 and Class 4 assets within the meaning of paragraph
1 of the Fourth Schedule (being, buildings, structures and
similar works of a permanent nature); and
(b) Depreciable assets (other than intangible assets) comprising
plant or machinery that are used to improve business
processes or productivity and fixed to the business premises.
(5) Capital allowances arising with respect to a particular year of
assessment shall be taken in that year and cannot be deferred to a later
year of assessment.
Assessable Charges and Balancing Allowances
2. (1) Where an asset for which Capital allowances has been
granted under this paragraph is disposed of (or deemed to be disposed
of) during a year of assessment –
(a) where the consideration received for the disposal exceeds
the written down value of the asset, the excess shall be
included in calculating a person’s income for a year of
assessment from a business in which the depreciable assets
are or were employed; and
