inland revenue act, no. 24 of 2017 217 (section 52) fifth schedule qualifying payments and reliefs 1. the qualifying payments referred to in section 52 shall be as follows: (a) a donation made by an individual or entity in money to an approved charitable institution that is: (i) a charitable institution established for the provision of institutionalized care for the sick or the needy; and (ii) declared by the minister as an approved charitable institution for the purposes of this sub-paragraph, subject to a maximum of – (iia) in the case of an individual, one-third of the taxable income of the individual or rupees seventy five thousand, whichever is less; (iib) in the case of an entity, one-fifth of the taxable income of the entity or rupees five hundred thousand, whichever is less; (b) a donation made by an individual or entity in money or otherwise to the following:- (i) the government of sri lanka; (ii) a local authority; (iii) any higher education institution established or deemed to be established under the universities act, no. 16 of 1978; (iv) the buddhist and pali university of sri lanka or any higher educational institution established by or under the buddhist and pali university of sri lanka act, no. 74 of 1981; (v) a fund established by the government of sri lanka; (vi) a fund established by a local authority and approved by the minister; (vii) the sevana fund created and administered by the national housing development authority established by the national housing development authority act, no. 17 of 1979; 218 inland revenue act, no. 24 of 2017 (viii) a fund established by a provincial council and approved by the minister; (ix) the api wenuwen api fund established by the api wenuwen api fund act, no. 6 of 2008; (x) national kidney fund established under the national kidney foundation of sri lanka (incorporation) act, no. 34 of 2006; (c) profits remitted to the president’s fund established by the president’s fund act, no. 7 of 1978 by a public corporation as required by the law by or under which such corporation is established. 2. the reliefs referred to in section 52 shall be as follows: (a) rs. 500,000 for each year of assessment, except that an individual who is a trustee, receiver, executor or liquidator shall not be entitled to deduct this personal relief as such trustee, receiver, executor or liquidator, and the relief is not available to be deducted against gains from the realisation of investment assets; (b) in the case of an individual with income from employment, rs. 700,000 for each year of assessment, up to the total of the individual’s income from employment for the year; (c) in the case of an individual with rental income from an investment asset, an amount equal to 25 percent of the total rental income for the year of assessment, being a relief for the repair, maintenance, and depreciation relating to the investment asset, but shall only be allowed to the extent no deduction or cost is claimed for any actual expenditures incurred by the taxpayer for the repair, maintenance, and depreciation of the investment asset; (d) in the case of an individual who is a senior citizen in a year with interest income derived from a financial institution, rs. 1,500,000 for each year of assessment, up to the total of the individual’s interest income for the year; (e) in the case of a resident individual or partner of a partnership with income earned in foreign currency in sri lanka, from any service rendered in or outside sri lanka to any person to be utilized outside sri lanka, rs. 15,000,000 for each year of assessment, up to the total of such income for the year. inland revenue act, no. 24 of 2017 219 (section 104) sixth schedule temporary concessions enhanced capital allowances 1. (1) a person who invests in sri lanka (other than expansion of existing business) on depreciable assets mentioned in subparagraph (4) during a year of assessment shall be granted enhanced capital allowances computed in accordance with this paragraph, in addition to the capital allowances computed under the fourth schedule. (2) a capital allowance of 100% for expenses incurred by a person, up to usd 03 million on depreciable assets mentioned in subparagraph (4) during a year of assessment shall be granted to that person for that year where the depreciable assets are used in a part of sri lanka, other than the northern province. (3) a capital allowance of 200% for expenses incurred by a person, that are used in the northern province up to usd 3 million on depreciable assets mentioned in subparagraph (4) during a year of assessment shall be granted to that person for that year where the depreciable assets are used in the northern province. (4) the depreciable assets referred to in subparagraphs (1) and (2) shall be - (a) class 1 and class 4 assets within the meaning of paragraph 1 of the fourth schedule (being, buildings, structures and similar works of a permanent nature); and (b) depreciable assets (other than intangible assets) comprising plant or machinery that are used to improve business processes or productivity and fixed to the business premises. (5) capital allowances arising with respect to a particular year of assessment shall be taken in that year and cannot be deferred to a later year of assessment. assessable charges and balancing allowances 2. (1) where an asset for which capital allowances has been granted under this paragraph is disposed of (or deemed to be disposed of) during a year of assessment – (a) where the consideration received for the disposal exceeds the written down value of the asset, the excess shall be included in calculating a person’s income for a year of assessment from a business in which the depreciable assets are or were employed; and