214 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
FOURTH SCHEDULE
CAPITAL ALLOWANCES, BALANCING ALLOWANCES AND
ASSESSABLE CHARGES
Types and classification of depreciable assets.
1. (1) The types and classification of depreciable assets shall be
as follows:
Class Depreciable Assets
1 computers and data handling equipment together with
peripheral devices.
2 buses and minibuses, goods vehicles; construction and earth-
moving equipment, heavy general purpose or specialised
trucks, trailers and trailer-mounted containers; plant and
machinery used in manufacturing.
3 railroad cars, locomotives, and equipment; vessels, barges,
tugs, and similar water transportation equipment; aircraft;
specialised public utility plant, equipment, and machinery;
office furniture, fixtures, and equipment; any depreciable
asset not included in another class.
4 buildings, structures and similar works of a permanent nature.
5 intangible assets, excluding goodwill.
(2) Where a depreciable asset owned by a person is only partly
used in the production of income from a business at the end of a year
of assessment, the cost of and consideration received for the asset
shall be apportioned according to the market value of that part of the
asset that is used in the production of income from that business and
that part not.
Capital allowances.
2. (1) Subject to this paragraph, an allowance shall be granted to
a person for a year of assessment for each of the person’s depreciable
assets equal to the depreciation for the year of that asset and calculated
in accordance with subparagraph (2).
(2) Depreciation for a year of assessment for each depreciable
asset shall be calculated according to the straight line method using
the following formula:
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 215
A/B
where-
A is the depreciation basis of asset at the end of the year of
assessment; and
B is the number of years referred to in subparagraph (3)
applicable to that asset.
(3) The number of years applicable to a depreciable asset referred
to in subparagraph (2) shall be:
Class Number of Years
1 5
2 5
3 5
4 20
5 The actual useful life of the intangible asset, or where the
intangible asset has an indefinite useful life, 20.
(4) No Capital allowance shall be granted to a person in respect
of a road vehicle, other than–
(a) a commercial vehicle;
(b) a bus or minibus;
(c) a goods vehicle; or
(d) a heavy general purpose or specialised truck or trailer.
(5) For the purposes of this paragraph, “commercial vehicle”
means–
(a) a road vehicle designed to carry loads of more than half a
tonne or more than 13 passengers; or
(b) a vehicle used in a transportation or vehicle rental business.
Depreciation basis of a depreciable asset.
3. The depreciation basis of a depreciable asset of a person at the
end of a year of assessment is shall be the sum of–
(a) the depreciation basis of the asset at the end of the previous
year of assessment; and
216 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(b) amounts added to the depreciation basis of the asset during
the year of assessment in respect of additions to the cost of
asset.
Balancing allowances and assessable charges.
4. (1) Where a depreciable asset of a person is realised by the
person before the end of a year of assessment-
(a) an assessable charge is included in calculating the person’s
income for the year calculated in accordance with the
following formula:
A – B
or
(b) a balancing allowance is granted to the person for the year
calculated in accordance with the following formula:
B – A
where –
‘A’ is consideration received by the person during the
year of assessment for the asset; and
‘B’ is the written down value of the asset at the time of
realisation of the asset.
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph, “written down value” of
an asset at the time of realisation of the asset means the expenses
incurred by a person in acquiring the asset reduced by all Capital
allowances granted to the person under paragraph 2 in respect of the
asset.
(3) For the purposes of this paragraph and without prejudice to
section 39, a person realises a depreciable asset if the person sells the
business in respect of which the expenses were incurred to another
person who is not an associate.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 217
(Section 52)
FIFTH SCHEDULE
QUALIFYING PAYMENTS AND RELIEFS
1. The qualifying payments referred to in section 52 shall be as
follows:
(a) a donation made by an individual or entity in money to an
approved charitable institution that is:
(i) a charitable institution established for the provision
of institutionalized care for the sick or the needy; and
(ii) declared by the Minister as an approved charitable
institution for the purposes of this sub-paragraph,
subject to a maximum of –
(iia) in the case of an individual, one-third of the
taxable income of the individual or Rupees
seventy five thousand, whichever is less;
(iib) in the case of an entity, one-fifth of the taxable
income of the entity or Rupees five hundred
thousand, whichever is less;
(b) a donation made by an individual or entity in money or
otherwise to the following:-
(i) the Government of Sri Lanka;
(ii) a local authority;
(iii) any Higher Education Institution established or
deemed to be established under the Universities Act,
No. 16 of 1978;
(iv) the Buddhist and Pali University of Sri Lanka or any
Higher Educational Institution established by or under
the Buddhist and Pali University of Sri Lanka Act,
No. 74 of 1981;
(v) a fund established by the Government of Sri Lanka;
(vi) a fund established by a local authority and approved
by the Minister;
(vii) the Sevana Fund created and administered by the
National Housing Development Authority established
by the National Housing Development Authority Act,
No. 17 of 1979;
