Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 1
[Certified on 24th of October, 2017]
L.D.—O. 23/2017
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION OF INCOME TAX
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue Act, Short title and
No. 24 of 2017 and comes into operaton on April 1, 2018. the effective date
of the Act.
PART I
CHAPTER I
IMPOSITION OF INCOME TAX
2. (1) Income tax shall be payable for each year of Charging
assessment by – provision.
(a) a person who has taxable income for that year; or
(b) a person who receives a final withholding payment
during that year.
(2) The amount of income tax payable by a person for
any year of assessment shall be the total of the amounts
payable under subsection (1).
(3) The income tax payable by a person under paragraph
(a) of subsection (1) shall be calculated by –
(a) applying the relevant rates of income tax set out in
the First Schedule to this Act to that person’s
taxable income;
(b) deducting any foreign tax credit claimed by and
allowed to the person for the year under section 80
of this Act; and
2 PL 005318—–2,962 (07/2017)
2 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(c) deducting any other tax credit granted or allowed
to the person for the year under this Act.
(4) The income tax payable by a person under paragraph
(b) of subsection (1) shall be calculated by applying the
relevant rate set out in the First Schedule to this Act to each
final withholding payment.
CHAPTER II
INCOME TAX BASE
Division I: Taxable Income
Taxable income. 3. (1) Subject to subsection (2), the taxable income of a
person for a year of assessment shall be equal to the total of
the person’s assessable income for the year from each
employment, business, investment and other sources.
(2) In arriving at taxable income of a year of assessment
qualifying payments and reliefs for that year under section
52 shall be deducted.
(3) The taxable income of each person and the assessable
income from each source shall be determined separately.
Division II: Assessable Income
Assessable 4. The assessable income of a person for a year of
income. assessment from employment, business, investment or other
source shall be equal to –
(a) in the case of a resident person, the person’s income
from employment, business, investment or other
source for that year, wherever the source arises; and
(b) in the case of a non-resident person, the person’s
income from the employment, business, investment
