2 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(c) deducting any other tax credit granted or allowed
to the person for the year under this Act.
(4) The income tax payable by a person under paragraph
(b) of subsection (1) shall be calculated by applying the
relevant rate set out in the First Schedule to this Act to each
final withholding payment.
CHAPTER II
INCOME TAX BASE
Division I: Taxable Income
Taxable income. 3. (1) Subject to subsection (2), the taxable income of a
person for a year of assessment shall be equal to the total of
the person’s assessable income for the year from each
employment, business, investment and other sources.
(2) In arriving at taxable income of a year of assessment
qualifying payments and reliefs for that year under section
52 shall be deducted.
(3) The taxable income of each person and the assessable
income from each source shall be determined separately.
Division II: Assessable Income
Assessable 4. The assessable income of a person for a year of
income. assessment from employment, business, investment or other
source shall be equal to –
(a) in the case of a resident person, the person’s income
from employment, business, investment or other
source for that year, wherever the source arises; and
(b) in the case of a non-resident person, the person’s
income from the employment, business, investment
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 3
or other source for that year, to the extent that
the income arises in or is derived from a source in
Sri Lanka.
5. (1) An individual’s income from an employment for Employment
a year of assessment shall be the individual’s gains and income.
profits from the employment for that year of assessment.
(2) In calculating an individual’s gains and profits from
an employment for a year of assessment the following
amounts received or derived by the individual during the
year of assessment from the employment shall be included:-
(a) payments of salary, wages, leave pay, overtime pay,
fees, pensions, commissions, gratuities, bonuses and
other similar payments;
(b) payments of personal allowance, including any cost
of living, subsistence, rent, entertainment or travel
allowance;
(c) payments providing discharge or reimbursement
of expenses incurred by the individual or an
associate of the individual;
(d) payments for the individual’s agreement to
conditions of employment;
(e) payments for redundancy or loss or termination of
employment;
(f) subject to paragraph (f) of subsection (3), retirement
contributions made to a retirement fund on behalf
of the employee and retirement payments received
in respect of the employment;
(g) payments or transfers to another person for the
benefit of the individual or an associate person of
the individual;
4 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(h) the fair market value of benefits received or derived
by virtue of the employment by an individual or an
associate person of the individual;
(i) other payments, including gifts received in respect
of the employment; and
(j) the market value of shares at the time allotted under
an employee share scheme, including shares allotted
as a result of the exercise of an option or right to
acquire the shares, reduced by the employee’s
contribution for the shares.
(3) In calculating an individual’s gains and profits from
an employment for a year of assessment the following shall
be excluded:-
(a) exempt amounts and final withholding payments;
(b) a discharge or reimbursement of expenses incurred
by the individual on behalf of the employer;
(c) a discharge or reimbursement of the person’s dental,
medical or health insurance expenses where the
benefit is available to all full-time employees on
equal terms;
(d) payments made to or benefits accruing to employees
on a non-discriminatory basis that, by reason of
their size, type and frequency, are unreasonable or
administratively impracticable for the employer to
account for or to allocate to the individual;
(e) the value of a right or option to acquire shares at
the time granted to an employee under an employee
share scheme (referred to in paragraph (j) of
subsection (2)); and
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 5
(f) subject to conditions as may be specified by the
Commissioner-General, contributions made by an
employer to an employee’s account with a pension,
provident or savings fund or savings society
approved by the Commissioner - General.
6. (1) A person’s income from a business for a year of Business
assessment shall be the person’s gains and profits from income.
conducting the business for the year.
(2) In calculating a person’s gains and profits from
conducting a business for a year of assessment the following
amounts derived by the person during the year of assessment
from the business shall be included–
(a) service fees;
(b) consideration received in respect of trading stock;
(c) gains from the realisation of capital assets and
liabilities of the business as calculated under
Chapter IV;
(d) amounts required to be included by the Second or
Fourth Schedule to this Act on the realisation of
the person’s depreciable assets of the business;
(e) amounts derived as consideration for accepting a
restriction on the capacity to conduct the business;
(f) gifts received by the person in respect of the
business;
(g) amounts derived that are effectively connected with
the business and that would otherwise be included
in calculating the person’s income from an
investment; and
6 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(h) other amounts required to be included under this
Act.
(3) In calculating a person’s gains and profits from
conducting a business for a year of assessment the following
shall be excluded:-
(a) exempt amounts and final withholding payments;
and
(b) amounts that are included in calculating the
person’s income from an employment.
Investment 7. (1) A person’s income from an investment for a year
income. of assessment shall be the person’s gains and profits from
that investment for the year.
(2) In calculating a person’s gains and profits from an
investment derived or received during a year of assessment
the following amounts received or derived by the person
during the year of assessment from the investment shall be
included:-
(a) dividends, interest, discounts, charges, annuities,
natural resource payments, rents, premiums and
royalties;
(b) gains from the realisation of investment assets as
calculated under Chapter IV;
(c) amounts derived as consideration for accepting a
restriction on the capacity to conduct the
investment;
(d) gifts received by the person in respect of the
investment;
(e) winnings from lotteries, betting or gambling; and
(f) other amounts required to be included under this
Act.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 7
(3) In calculating a person’s gains and profits from an
investment for a year of assessment the following shall be
excluded:-
(a) exempt amounts and final withholding payments;
and
(b) amounts that are included in calculating the
person’s income from an employment or business.
8. (1) A person’s income from other sources for a year of Other income.
assessment shall be that person’s gains and profits from any
source whatsoever for the year, not including profits of a
casual and non-recurring nature.
(2) In calculating a person’s gains or profits from any
source whatsoever, the following shall be excluded:-
(a) exempt amounts and final withholding payments;
and
(b) amounts that are included in calculating the
person’s income from an employment, business or
investment.
Division III: Exempt Amounts
9. (1) The amounts referred to in the Third Schedule to Exempt
this Act shall be exempt from the payment of tax. amounts.
(2) Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, an exemption
of any person or amount from tax imposed by this Act shall
not be provided and an agreement that affects or purports to
affect the application of this Act shall not be entered into,
except as provided for in this Act.
(3) Subsection (2) shall not apply to a provision in another
law or an agreement that is in force on date of commencement
of this Act.
8 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
Division IV: Deductions
General 10. (1) (a) No deduction shall be made in calculating a
Deduction. person’s income from employment.
(b) The following deductions shall not be made in
calculating a person’s income:-
(i) domestic expenses incurred by the person (section
197);
(ii) tax payable under this Act;
(iii) interest, penalties and fines payable to a
government or a political subdivision of a
government of any country for breach of any written
law;
(iv) expenditure to the extent incurred by a person in
deriving exempt amounts or final withholding
payments;
(v) retirement contributions, unless they are included
in calculating the income of an employee or consist
of a contribution by an employer to a pension,
provident or savings fund or a savings society,
which is approved by the Commissioner-General
subject to any specified conditions;
(vi) dividends of a company;
(vii) outlays or expenses for entertainment;
(viii) an amount that a person has transferred, in his
financial accounts, to a reserve or provision for
expenditures or losses not yet incurred but expected
to be incurred in a future year of assessment;
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 9
(ix) amounts incurred on lotteries, betting or gambling,
other than amounts incurred from conducting a
business of lotteries, betting or gambling; or
(x) taxes or other levies specified by the Commissioner-
General.
(2) Where a person is allowed a deduction for a payment
from which the person is required to withhold tax under
Division II of Chapter VIII, the deduction shall not be allowed
until the tax withheld has been paid to the Commissioner-
General.
(3) No deduction shall be allowed except as expressly
permitted by this Act.
(4) Where more than one deduction applies, the most
specific deduction shall be applied even if that results in the
denial of a deduction.
11. (1) In calculating a person’s income from a business Main
or investment for a year of assessment, expenses to the extent deduction.
they are incurred during the year by the person and in the
production of income from the business or investment, shall
be deducted.
(2) No deduction shall be allowed under subsection
(1) for an expense of a capital nature.
(3) In this section, “expense of a capital nature” includes
an expense that secures a benefit capable of lasting longer
than twelve months.
12. For the purposes of section 11, the interest incurred Interest expense.
by a person during a year of assessment under a debt
obligation of the person shall be deemed to be incurred in
the production of income to the extent that –
(a) where the debt obligation was incurred in
borrowing money, the money is used during the
10 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
year or was used to acquire an asset that is used
during the year in the production of income; and
(b) in any other case, the debt obligation was incurred
in the production of income.
Allowance for 13. (1) For the purposes of calculating a person’s
trading stock. income from a business for a year of assessment, in respect of
trading stock of the business, the allowance calculated under
subsection (2) shall be deducted.
(2) The allowance shall be calculated as –
(a) the opening value of trading stock of the business
for the year of assessment; plus
(b) expenses incurred by the person during the year
that are included in the cost of trading stock of
the business; less
(c) the closing value of trading stock of the business
for the year.
(3) The opening value of trading stock of a business for a
year of assessment shall be the closing value of trading stock
of the business at the end of the previous year of assessment.
(4) The closing value of trading stock of a business for a
year of assessment shall be the lower of –
(a) the cost of the trading stock of the business at the
end of the year; or
(b) the market value of the trading stock of the business
at the end of the year.
(5) Where the closing value of trading stock is determined
in accordance with paragraph (b) of subsection (4), the cost
of the trading stock shall reset to that value.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 11
14. (1) Expenses for the repair or improvement of Repairs and
depreciable assets and meeting the requirements of improvements.
subsection (1) of section 11 of a person for any year of
assessment shall be deducted irrespective of whether they
are of a capital nature or not.
(2) The deductions referred to in subsection (1) granted
for a year of assessment with respect to a depreciable asset of
a person –
(a) shall not exceed –
(i) in the case of repair or improvement to a Class
4 depreciable asset, five percent of the written
down value of the asset at the end of the
previous year (paragraph 4(3) of the Fourth
Schedule);
(ii) in all other cases, twenty percent of the written
down value of the asset at the end of the
previous year (paragraph 4(3) of the Fourth
Schedule); and
(b) shall be allowed in the order in which the expenses
are incurred.
(3) Excess expense for which a deduction shall not be
allowed as a result of the limitation in subsection (2) shall
be added to the depreciation basis of the asset year (paragraph
(3) of the Fourth Schedule).
15. (1) Research and development expenses and Research and
agricultural start up expenses meeting the requirements of development
subsection (1) of section 11 may be deducted irrespective of expenses and
agricultural start
whether they are of a capital nature or not.
up expenses.
(2) In this section –
“agricultural start up expenses” means expenses
incurred by the person in –
(a) opening up any land for cultivation or for
animal husbandry;
12 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(b) cultivating land referred to in paragraph (a)
with plants;
(c) the purchase of livestock or poultry to be
reared on land referred to in paragraph (a); or
(d) maintaining tanks or ponds or the clearing or
preparation of any inland waters for the
rearing of fish and the purchase of fish to be
reared in such tank, pond or inland waters, as
the case may be;
“research and development expenses” means
expenses incurred by the person in –
(a) carrying on any scientific, industrial,
agricultural or any other research for
the upgrading of the person’s business
through any institution in Sri Lanka (or
for any innovation or research relating
to high value agricultural products, by
the person or through any research
institution in Sri Lanka); or
(b) the process of developing the person’s
business and improving business
products or process,
which shall be beneficial to Sri Lanka, but
shall exclude expenses incurred that are
otherwise included in the cost of an asset
under this Act.
Capital 16. (1) For the purposes of calculating a person’s income
allowances and from a business for a year of assessment –
balancing
allowances.
(a) the Capital allowances referred to in subsection (2)
shall be deducted; and
(b) the balancing allowances referred to in subsection
(4) shall be deducted;
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 13
(2) Capital allowances are –
(a) granted in respect of depreciable assets owned
and used by a person at the end of a year of
assessment in the production of the person’s
income from a business; and
(b) calculated in accordance with the provisions
of the Second or Fourth Schedule to this Act.
(3) Capital allowances granted with respect to a particular
year of assessment shall be taken in that year and shall not
be deferred to a later year of assessment.
(4) Balancing allowances are –
(a) made in respect of depreciable assets -
(i) realised during a year of assessment; and
(ii) in respect of which Capital allowances
have been granted in that year or an earlier
year; and
(b) calculated in accordance with the provisions of
the Second or Fourth Schedule to this Act.
17. (1) For the purposes of calculating a person’s income Losses on
realisation of
from a business for a year of assessment, a loss of the person
business assets
from the realisation during the year of assets and liabilities
and liabilities.
referred to in subsection (2) shall be deducted. The loss shall
be calculated under Chapter IV.
(2) The assets and liabilities are –
(a) capital assets of a business to the extent to which
the assets were used in the production of income
from the business; and
14 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(b) liabilities of a business to the extent to which –
(i) in the case of a liability that is a debt
obligation incurred in borrowing money, the
money was used or an asset purchased with
the money was used in the production of
income from the business; and
(ii) in the case of any other liability, the liability
was incurred in the production of income from
the business.
Deductible 18. (1) The amount of financial costs deducted in
amount of calculating an entity’s income, other than a financial
financial cost.
institution from conducting a business or investment for a
year of assessment shall not exceed the amount of financial
costs attributable to financial instruments within the limit
referred to in subsection (2).
(2) The limit shall be computed according to the following
formula:-
A x B
Where:
‘A’ is the total of the issued share capital and
reserves of the entity; and
‘B’ is –
(a) in the case of a manufacturing entity, the
number 3; and
(b) in the case of an entity other than a
manufacturing entity, the number 4.
(3) Financial costs for which a deduction is denied as a
result of subsection (1), may be carried forward and treated
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 15
as incurred during any of the following six years of
assessment, but only to the extent of any unused limitation
in subsection (2) for the year.
(4) The Commissioner-General may specify the
circumstances in which losses on financial instruments may
only be set against gains on financial instruments.
(5) In this section, “reserves” exclude reserves arising
from the revaluation of any asset.
19. (1) In calculating the income of a person from a Business or
business for a year of assessment, the following shall be investment
losses.
deducted:–
(a) an unrelieved loss of the person for the year from
any other business; and
(b) an unrelieved loss of the person for any of the
previous six years of assessment from the business
or any other business.
(2) The person may choose the income calculation or
calculations in which an unrelieved loss or part of the loss is
deducted. However, where a loss can be deducted under
subsection (1) it shall be deducted.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1) and
(2), where a person makes a loss and if the loss were a profit
it would be taxed at a reduced rate, the loss shall be deducted
only in calculating income taxed at the same reduced rate, a
lower reduced rate or exempt amounts. If the loss were a
profit and the profit would be exempt, the loss shall be
deducted only in calculating exempt amounts.
(4) The provisions of subsections from (1) to (3) shall
subject to the provisions in subsection (5), apply to
16 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
calculating income from an investment and unrelieved losses
from an investment so that –
(a) unrelieved losses from a business may be deducted
in calculating income from an investment;
(b) unrelieved losses from an investment shall be
deducted only in calculating income from an
investment.
(5) Subject to section 194, a gain from the realisation of
an investment asset shall not be reduced by any loss on the
disposal of another investment asset.
(6) In this section –
“loss” of a person for a year of assessment from a
business or investment shall be calculated as the
excess of amounts deducted in accordance with
this Act (other than under this section or subsection
(5) of section 25) in calculating the person’s
income from the business or investment over
amounts included in calculating that income; and
“unrelieved loss” means the amount of a loss that has
not been deducted in calculating a person’s
income under this section or subsection (5) of
section 25.
CHAPTER III
CALCULATION OF THE INCOME TAX
Division 1: Method of Accounting
Change in the 20. (1) The year of assessment means the period of
year of twelve months commencing on the first day of April of any
assessment.
year and ending on the thirty first day of March in the
immediately succeeding year.
