Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 141
(3) Notwithstanding any other written law, withholding
tax withheld by a person:-
(a) shall not be subject to attachment in respect of any
debt or liability of the person;
(b) shall be a first charge on the payment or amount
from which the tax shall be withheld; and
(c) shall be withheld prior to any other deduction that
the person may be required to make from the
payment or amount under an order of any court or
any law.
154. (1) Payments of a specific tax shall be applied Order of
against the taxpayer’s liability in the following order:— payment of tax
debts.
(a) interest relating to the tax;
(b) penalties relating to the tax; and
(c) the principal amount of the tax.
(2) The Commissioner-General may apply a tax payment
to any tax which has been assessed and is due—
(a) where the taxpayer fails to indicate to which specific
tax or taxation period the payment should be
applied; or
(b) where the payment has been collected pursuant.
155. Tax shall be payable in Sri Lanka currency, except Currency.
as otherwise provided in this Act.
CHAPTER XV
INTEREST
156. (1) Procedures for the payment, collection and General.
dispute of a tax shall apply equally to interest relating to a
tax.
142 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(2) Liability for interest under this Act shall be calculated
separately and shall be in addition to penalties provided by
law.
(3) If a person has paid interest and an amount to which
the interest relates is found not to have been payable, the
interest paid on that amount shall be refunded to the person.
Interest on 157. (1) If an amount of tax is not paid by the due date,
under the taxpayer shall be liable for interest on the amount for
payments.
the period from the due date (determined without having
regard to an extension of time) under section 151 to the date
the tax is paid.
(2) In the case of tax due under a revised assessment, the
due date for the calculation of interest shall be the original
due date of the tax.
Interest on 158. (1) Where the Commissioner-General is required
refundable to refund an interest amount, it shall be paid to the taxpayer
amounts.
from the later of –
(a) the due date; or
(b) the date the tax was paid,
until the date on which the refundable amount is paid.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), no
interest shall be payable in respect of a refund that is based
on a claim for refund and is paid to the taxpayer within sixty
days of the filing of the claim for refund.
(3) A refundable amount that is applied against another
tax liability under section 150 shall be considered to have
been paid to the taxpayer on the due date of the liability
against which the refundable amount was applied.
Interest rate. 159. (1) The interest rate for payments pursuant to
section 157 shall be one and one-half per cent per month or
part month, compounded monthly.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 143
(2) The interest rate for payments pursuant to section 158
shall be one-half per cent per month or part month,
compounded monthly.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1) and
(2), the Minister may vary the interest rate by Order published
in the Gazette.
CHAPTER XVI
RECOVERY OF TAX
160. The Commissioner-General may proceed with any General.
remedy under this Chapter once the taxpayer is in default
pursuant to section 152.
161. Institution of action under this Chapter shall be Period of
commenced within five years of the date on which the limitations for
taxpayer was in default. collection.
162. (1) Where the Commissioner-General is unable to Extinguishment
recover an amount of tax, interest, or penalty due and payable of uncollectible
by a person under this Act, the Minister may, on amounts.
recommendation of the Commissioner-General and approval
by the Cabinet, order the extinguishment of the liability as
a debt due to the Government.
(2) Where the Commissioner-General determines that a
person whose debt was extinguished under subsection (1)
has assets that may be attached to recover all or part of the
unpaid amounts, the liability for the debt may be reinstated
by an order of the Minister, approved by Cabinet, revoking
the order made under subsection (1).
163. (1) Tax that is due and payable shall be a debt to Court
the Government and shall be payable to the Commissioner- proceedings.
General.
(2) Where a person fails to pay tax when it is due, the
Commissioner-General may commence proceedings in a
court of competent jurisdiction to recover the debt
outstanding in respect of the amount owing.
