Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 131
(2) An appeal to the Court of Appeal shall not be made
unless an appeal request to the Tax Appeals Commission
has first been made, and—
(a) a decision has been received from the Tax Appeals
Commission; or
(b) ninety days have lapsed since the request for appeal
to the Tax Appeals Commission was made and no
response to the request for appeal has been received
from the Tax Appeals Commission.
(3) An appeal from a decision of the Tax Appeals
Commission to the Court of Appeal shall be made only on a
question of law.
(4) Where an appeal is made from a decision of the Tax
Appeals Commission, the Tax Appeals Commission shall
provide a written statement of the decision, including a
summary of the evidence, the Commission’s finding of the
facts, and their conclusions on the points of law involved.
CHAPTER XIV
LIABILITY FOR AND PAYMENT OF TAX
145. (1) Tax shall be due and payable at the time Liability of
stipulated under this Act. taxpayer and
due date.
(2) Subject to subsection (1), the amount of tax—
(a) stated in a notice of assessment to be due; or
(b) deemed to be assessed under Chapter XII,
shall be due and payable on the date stated in the
notice or, in the case described in paragraph (b), on
the due date for the return in question.
(3) Tax shall be paid in the manner and place specified
by the Commissioner-General.
132 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(4) Where the Commissioner-General has reasonable
grounds to believe that a taxpayer may leave Sri Lanka before
the due date for payment of an amount that would be due
under this Act, inform the person by notice in writing that
tax is due on the date specified by the Commissioner-General.
(5) Where a taxpayer fails to pay tax on the due date, the
taxpayer shall be liable for any costs incurred by the
Commissioner-General in taking action to recover the unpaid
tax.
Liability and 146. (1) For the purposes of this Act, subject to
obligations of subsection (2), “representative,” in respect of a person,
representatives. means—
(a) where the person is an individual under a legal
disability, the guardian or manager who receives or
is entitled to receive income on behalf of, or for the
benefit of, the individual;
(b) where the person is a company, a director or
principal officer of the company or an agent referred
to in subsection (4);
(c) where the person is a partnership, a partner;
(d) where the person is a trust, a trustee;
(e) where the person is a body of persons other than a
partnership or company, an individual responsible
for accounting for the receipt and payment of
moneys or funds on behalf of the body;
(f) where the person is the Government of Sri Lanka,
an individual responsible for accounting for the
receipt and payment of moneys or funds on behalf
of the Government;
(g) where the person is a public corporation or local
authority in Sri Lanka, an individual responsible
for accounting for the receipt and payment of
moneys or funds on behalf of such public
corporation or local authority;
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 133
(h) where the person is a foreign government or
political subdivision of a foreign government, an
individual responsible for accounting for the receipt
and payment of moneys or funds in Sri Lanka on
behalf of the government or political subdivision
of the government; or
(i) where the person is a non-resident, a person
controlling the person’s affairs in Sri Lanka,
including a manager of a business of that person in
Sri Lanka.
(2) Where, in relation to a person, there is more than one
representative, described in subsection (1), then that person
shall nominate which of them shall serve as the
representative, but in the absence of a designation all shall
serve as representatives pending the designation.
(3) The nomination under subsection (2) shall be of a
person residing in Sri Lanka, unless there is none in relation
to the person.
(4) Every company carrying on business in Sri Lanka
shall be represented for the purposes of this Act by a principal
officer residing in Sri Lanka and where there is none, by an
authorised agent residing in Sri Lanka, and shall notify the
Commissioner-General of its appointed representative within
one month after it commences carrying on business in Sri
Lanka, or one month after the representative ceases to qualify
as such.
(5) Where a representative of a person nominated under
subsection (1) is unable to perform duties, the Commissioner-
General may, by notice in writing, declare another individual
to be a representative of the person for the purposes of this
Act.
(6) Every representative of a person shall be responsible
for performing duties or obligations imposed by this Act on
the person, including maintaining records, filing returns and
other documents, and the payment of tax.
134 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(7) Subject to subsection (9), the tax that, by virtue of
subsection (6), is payable by a representative of a person
shall be recoverable from the representative only to the
extent of any assets of the person that are in the possession
or under the control of the representative.
(8) A representative of a person who pays tax owed by
the person shall be entitled to recover the amount so paid
from the person or to retain the amount so paid out of any
moneys of the person that are in the representative’s
possession or under the representative’s control.
(9) A representative of a tax payer shall be personally
liable for the payment of tax due by the tax payer if, while
the amount remains unpaid, the representative—
(a) alienates, charges, or disposes of moneys received
or accrued in respect of which the tax is payable; or
(b) disposes of or parts with moneys or funds belonging
to the taxpayer that are in the possession of the
representative or which come to the representative
after the tax is payable, if the tax could legally
have been paid from or out of the moneys or funds.
(10) A representative of a tax payer shall not be personally
liable for tax under subsection (9) if-
(a) the monies were paid by the representative on
behalf of a taxpayer and the amount paid has
priority, in law or equity, over the tax payable by
the taxpayer; or
(b) at the time the monies were paid, the representative
had no knowledge, and could not reasonably be
expected to know, of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
(11) Nothing in this section shall relieve a person from
performing duties imposed under this Act, notwithstanding
any failure to perform such duties by his representative.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 135
(12) Where there are two or more representatives of a
person, the duties or obligations referred to in this section
shall apply jointly and severally to the representatives but
may be discharged by any of them.
(13) Where—
(a) a partnership or other unincorporated
association or body is dissolved or otherwise
ceases to exist because of the retirement or
withdrawal of one or more, but not all, of its
partners or members, or because of the
admission or a new partner or member;
(b) apart from the provisions of this Act a new
partnership, association, or body, consisting
of the remaining members, or of the existing
or remaining members and one or more new
members, thereby comes into existence; and
(c) the new partnership, association, or body
continues to carry on the activity that was
carried on by the dissolved partnership,
association, or body,
the dissolved partnership, association, or body and
the new partnership, association, or body are, for
the purposes of this Act, shall be deemed to be one
and the same.
(14) Where, after the death of a taxable person or the
sequestration of a taxable person’s estate, a taxable activity
previously carried on by the taxable person is carried on by
or on behalf of the executor or trustee of the person’s estate
or anything is done in connection with the termination of
the taxable activity, the estate of the taxable person, as
represented by the executor or trustee, shall be deemed for
the purposes of this Act to be the taxable person in respect of
the taxable activity.
136 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(15) Where a mortgagee is in possession of land or other
property previously mortgaged by a mortgagor who is a
taxable person, and the mortgagee carries on a taxable
activity in relation to the land or other property, the
mortgagee shall be deemed, from the date the mortgagee
took possession of that land or property until such time as
the mortgagee ceases to be in possession of the land or
property, to be the taxable person carrying on the taxable
activity.
(16) For the purposes of this Act, where a person is a
trustee in more than one capacity, the person shall be treated
as a separate person in relation to each of those capacities.
Officers of 147. (1) A liability or obligation imposed by this Act
unincorporated
on an unincorporated body shall be imposed on the body
bodies.
and on any person who is an officer of the body at the time
the liability or obligation is imposed, and the body and
each such officer shall be jointly and severally liable for
that liability or obligation.
(2) For the purposes of this Act, the existence of an
unincorporated body and any taxable activity carried on by
the unincorporated body shall be deemed not to be affected
by any change in its members or officers.
(3) A document which is required to be served on an
unincorporated body under this Act may be served on an
officer of the body.
(4) Where an offence under this Act has been committed
by an unincorporated body, the offence shall be deemed to
have been committed by the officers of the unincorporated
body.
Liability for tax 148. (1) This section shall apply to a company which
following
is wound up without having satisfied its tax liabilities,
winding-up.
including any liability to withhold and remit tax,
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 137
(2) A person who was a shareholder of the company at the
time of the winding-up or during the preceding year shall be
jointly and severally liable to pay the unpaid tax to the
extent of a distribution of cash or property from the company
received as a shareholder within one year prior to its winding-
up.
(3) A person liable for tax of a company under this section
may invoke any rights as against the Department that would
have been available to the company.
149. (1) Where an entity fails to pay tax on time, every Managers of
person who is or has been a manager of the entity at any time entities.
since the relevant time shall be jointly and severally liable
with the entity and every other such person for payment of
the tax.
(2) Subsection (1) shall apply irrespective of whether the
entity has ceased to exist or not.
(3) Provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply to a
manager who has exercised the degree of care, diligence,
and skill that a reasonably prudent person in the position of
the manager would have exercised in preventing in the initial
and continuing failure to pay tax.
(4) Amounts payable to the Commissioner-General by a
manager under this section shall be a personal tax liability
of the manager.
(5) Where a manager pays tax by reason of a liability
under subsection (1), the manager may recover the payment
from the entity as a debt due.
(6) A manager of an entity may not be assessed for an
amount under this section after the period of limitations for
collecting the relevant tax from the entity has expired.
138 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(7) In this section-
“entity” means any taxpayer other than a
partnership, unincorporated body, or an
individual;
“manager” of an entity includes a person purporting
to act as a manager of the entity and, in the case
of a company, includes a director, the chief
executive officer, and the chief financial officer
of the company; and
“relevant time” is six months before the events that
gave rise to the entity’s tax liability.
Refundable 150. (1) Where the amount of tax which has been paid
amounts. by a taxpayer exceeds the amount of tax assessed or found
to be payable, the Commissioner-General shall —
(a) refund the amount against the taxpayer’s assessed
liability to pay tax, interest, late fees, or penalties
under this Act; and
(b) unless the taxpayer objects, apply an amount
remaining against the taxpayer’s liability to make
advance payments of tax that shall become due
within the succeeding six months.
(2) Subject to subsection (1), refundable amounts shall
be paid to the taxpayer.
(3) A refund or credit may be made under this section
only if the taxpayer applies for it within four years of the
date of payment or, if made on the Commissioner-General’s
initiative, within the specified time period.
Extension of 151. (1) The taxpayer may apply, on a form specified
time for
by the Commissioner-General, for an extension of the time
payment.
for payment of tax beyond the date on which it is required to
be paid under section 145 of this Act.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 139
(2) The Commissioner-General may, with good cause,
extend the time for payment as requested under subsection
(1) and may grant an extension period different from the
period requested by the taxpayer, pending resolution of an
appeal, and may make other arrangements to ensure payment
of the tax, including arrangements requiring the person to
pay the amount due in instalments or by requiring security.
(3) Where the Commissioner-General does not notify the
person who made application under subsection (1), of the
decision in writing within thirty days, the application shall
be deemed to be granted.
(4) Where a taxpayer has been granted an extension under
subsection (1), interest shall be payable notwithstanding
the extension of time.
(5) If an extension is granted by permitting the taxpayer
to pay the tax by instalments and the taxpayer defaults in
paying any of the instalments, the amount of the outstanding
tax shall become payable immediately.
152. (1) The Commissioner-General may send a notice Default in
to the taxpayer demanding payment when a tax is not paid payment.
by the date on which it became due and payable.
(2) The notice shall state:
(a) the name of the taxpayer;
(b) the taxpayer identification number (TIN), if
such number has been issued to the taxpayer;
(c) the date of issue of the notice;
(d) the amount of tax, interest, and penalties payable,
and the tax period or periods to which they relate;
(e) a demand for payment of these amounts;
140 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(f) the place at which payment is to be made; and
(g) that the taxpayer is on notice that, if payment is not
made within twenty one days after service of the
notice, the Commissioner-General has the right to
institute action to collect the amounts specified in
the notice.
(3) The taxpayer shall be in default, twenty-one days after
service of the notice in respect of any amounts remaining
unpaid as of that date.
(4) Subsection (3) shall not apply where the taxpayer
has–
(a) entered into a payment arrangement with the
Commissioner-General; or
(b) received an extension pursuant to section 151 and
complied with terms of the arrangement.
Priority of tax. 153. (1) This section shall apply to the following
amounts:—
(a) withholding tax;
(b) an amount that a payer is required to pay under a
notice issued under section 170.
(2) A person owing, holding, receiving, or withholding
an amount to which this section applies shall hold the
amount in trust for the Republic of Sri Lanka and, in the
event of the liquidation or bankruptcy of the person, the
amount:-
(a) shall not form part of the person’s estate in
liquidation or bankruptcy; and
(b) shall be paid to the Commissioner-General before
any distribution of property is made.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 141
(3) Notwithstanding any other written law, withholding
tax withheld by a person:-
(a) shall not be subject to attachment in respect of any
debt or liability of the person;
(b) shall be a first charge on the payment or amount
from which the tax shall be withheld; and
(c) shall be withheld prior to any other deduction that
the person may be required to make from the
payment or amount under an order of any court or
any law.
154. (1) Payments of a specific tax shall be applied Order of
against the taxpayer’s liability in the following order:— payment of tax
debts.
(a) interest relating to the tax;
(b) penalties relating to the tax; and
(c) the principal amount of the tax.
(2) The Commissioner-General may apply a tax payment
to any tax which has been assessed and is due—
(a) where the taxpayer fails to indicate to which specific
tax or taxation period the payment should be
applied; or
(b) where the payment has been collected pursuant.
155. Tax shall be payable in Sri Lanka currency, except Currency.
as otherwise provided in this Act.
CHAPTER XV
INTEREST
156. (1) Procedures for the payment, collection and General.
dispute of a tax shall apply equally to interest relating to a
tax.
