Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 127
(b) notice of the amended assessment shall be served
on the taxpayer in accordance with subsection (5)
section 135.
(5) Where the Commissioner-General makes a decision
to refuse an application under subsection (1) he shall serve
the taxpayer with written notice of the decision with reasons
for the decision.
(6) Where the Commissioner-General has not made a
decision on an application made under subsection (1) within
ninety days of the application being filed, the
Commissioner-General shall be deemed to have:-
(a) made a decision to disallow the application; and
(b) served the taxpayer with notice of the decision on
the ninetieth day after the application was filed.
CHAPTER XIII
OBJECTIONS AND APPEALS
137. Except as provided for under this Chapter— Objections.
(a) no decision relating to the payment of a tax
under this Act shall be disputed at the Tax
Appeals Commission, in any Court or
Tribunal or any other proceedings on any
other ground; and
(b) the amount and particulars of every
assessment made by the Commissioner-
General in respect of a taxpayer shall be
treated as correct and the liability of the
taxpayer shall be determined accordingly.
138. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency The Act to
between the provisions of this Act and the provisions of any prevail.
other written law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.
128 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
Administrative 139. (1) A taxpayer who is dissatisfied with an
Review.
assessment or other decision may request the Commissioner-
General to review the decision.
(2) A request for review shall be made to the
Commissioner-General in writing not later than thirty days
after the taxpayer was notified of the decision, and shall
specify in detail the grounds upon which it is made.
(3) Where the request is an objection against an assessment
which has been made in the absence of a return required to
be made, the notice of request relating to the objection shall
be sent together with a return duly made.
(4) The receipt of every request shall be acknowledged
within thirty days of its receipt and where so acknowledged,
the date of the letter of acknowledgement shall for the
purpose of this section, be deemed to be the date of receipt
of such request.
(5) The Commissioner-General shall consider the
taxpayer’s request and notify the taxpayer in writing of the
Commissioner-General’s decision and the reasons for the
decision. Taxpayer’s request shall be considered by a tax
official other than the tax official who made the assessment
or other decision.
(6) The Commissioner-General shall give effect to the
decision referred to in subsection (5) by confirming an
existing assessment or making an amended assessment
(including for a nil amount) or an additional assessment in
accordance with this Act, or taking such other necessary
action to give effect to that decision.
(7) Where the Commissioner-General hears the evidence
of a taxpayer or of any other person in respect of the request,
a record of such evidence shall be maintained or caused to
be maintained.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 129
(8) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2), the
taxpayer may make a request for administrative review upon
satisfying the Commissioner-General that owing to absence
from Sri Lanka, sickness, or other reasonable cause the
taxpayer was prevented from making the request within thirty
days of the event described in subsection (2), and that there
has been no unreasonable delay on the taxpayer’s part.
140. (1) A person aggrieved by the decision of Appeal from
administrative review under section 139 may appeal against Administrative
Review.
the decision to the Tax Appeals Commission.
(2) An appeal to the Tax Appeals Commission shall not
be made unless a request for administrative review has first
been made, and —
(a) a decision has been received from the
Commissioner-General; or
(b) ninety days have lapsed since the request for
administrative review was made.
(3) Where the Tax Appeals Commission is satisfied that
the appellant is overcharged it may reduce the amount of
the assessment by the amount of the overcharge, and if it is
satisfied that the appellant is undercharged, it may increase
the amount of the assessment by the amount of the
undercharge, or may confirm or annul the assessment.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter XVI,
where the Tax Appeals Commission is satisfied that tax in
accordance with its decision upon the appeal may not be
recovered, the Tax Appeals Commission may require the
appellant to furnish security for payment of the tax, if any,
which may become payable by the appellant as may seem to
the Tax Appeals Commission to be proper.
(5) Notice of an appeal under this section shall be given
in writing to the Tax Appeals Commission with a copy to
the Commissioner-General within thirty days from the date
of the decision of the Commissioner-General under section
139.
130 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (5), the
appellant may appeal against an assessment or other decision
upon satisfying the Tax Appeals Commission that owing to
absence from Sri Lanka, sickness, or other reasonable cause
the appellant was prevented from giving notice of appeal
within thirty days as required under subsection (2), and that
there has been no unreasonable delay on the appellant’s
part.
Burden of 141. The burden of proof shall be on the taxpayer or
proof. person making an objection to an assessment to show that
the assessment is incorrect.
Appeals do not 142. Notwithstanding that a request for administrative
suspend review of an assessment has been filed or a taxpayer has
collection of
appealed to the Tax Appeals Commission against an
amounts.
assessment, the tax payable under the assessment shall remain
due and payable, unless the Commissioner-General grants
an extension of time under section 151 and may be recovered,
despite the request for review or appeal.
Finality of 143. (1) Subject to the right of the Assistant
assessment. Commissioner to issue a new or revised assessment under
section 135 and subject to subsection (2), if no request for
review is made within the time permitted by section 139, an
assessment shall be treated as final.
(2) If an assessment is treated as final under subsection
(1), and the taxpayer timely files an amended return under
section 136, the filing of the amended return has the effect
of revising the assessment, but only if the tax shown on the
amended return exceeds the tax assessed.
Appeal from a 144. (1) Either party to a proceeding before the Tax
decision of the Appeals Commission who is dissatisfied with the decision
Tax Appeals
of the Tax Appeals Commission may, within one month after
Commission.
being notified of the decision, file a notice of appeal with
the Court of Appeal; and the party so appealing shall serve
a copy of the notice of appeal on the other party to the
proceeding before the Tax Appeals Commission.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 131
(2) An appeal to the Court of Appeal shall not be made
unless an appeal request to the Tax Appeals Commission
has first been made, and—
(a) a decision has been received from the Tax Appeals
Commission; or
(b) ninety days have lapsed since the request for appeal
to the Tax Appeals Commission was made and no
response to the request for appeal has been received
from the Tax Appeals Commission.
(3) An appeal from a decision of the Tax Appeals
Commission to the Court of Appeal shall be made only on a
question of law.
(4) Where an appeal is made from a decision of the Tax
Appeals Commission, the Tax Appeals Commission shall
provide a written statement of the decision, including a
summary of the evidence, the Commission’s finding of the
facts, and their conclusions on the points of law involved.
CHAPTER XIV
LIABILITY FOR AND PAYMENT OF TAX
145. (1) Tax shall be due and payable at the time Liability of
stipulated under this Act. taxpayer and
due date.
(2) Subject to subsection (1), the amount of tax—
(a) stated in a notice of assessment to be due; or
(b) deemed to be assessed under Chapter XII,
shall be due and payable on the date stated in the
notice or, in the case described in paragraph (b), on
the due date for the return in question.
(3) Tax shall be paid in the manner and place specified
by the Commissioner-General.
