158 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
CHAPTER XVII
PENALTIES
Penalties. 176. (1) This section shall apply to penalties under this
Act.
(2) Procedures for the assessment, payment, collection,
and dispute of a tax shall apply equally to penalties relating
to a tax.
(3) A person’s liability for a penalty under a section in
this Chapter is separate and distinct from the person’s
liability, if any, for a penalty under another section of this
Act or any other law and is in addition to interest levied
under Chapter XV and to a criminal sanction imposed under
Chapter XVIII.
(4) The burden of proof shall be on the Commissioner-
General to show non-compliance with the provisions of this
Act with respect to the imposition of a penalty.
(5) The Commissioner-General may make an assessment
of a penalty charged as if the penalty were tax payable under
this Act, and may specify the date on which the penalty is
payable.
(6) A notice of an assessment of a penalty shall be served
on the person who is laible to the penalty and shall state the
amount of the penalty payable, the provision under which it
is payable, and the due date for payment, and on service of
the notice —
(a) the notice and the assessment shall be treated as if
they were a notice and assessment of tax payable
under this Act;
(b) the amount of the penalty specified in the notice
shall be treated as tax payable under this Act; and
(c) the due date for payment is the date specified in the
notice.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 159
(7) A person’s liability to pay a penalty shall arise on the
making of an assessment by the Commissioner-General under
subsection (6).
(8) The period of limitations for assessing a penalty shall
be five years after the violation which causes the penalty,
except for a violation under section 180, in which case the
limitation for assessing a penalty shall be the same as the
limitation for assessing the tax to which the penalty relates.
(9) If a person liable for a penalty shows reasonable cause,
the Commissioner-General may—
(a) refrain in whole or in part from assessing the
penalty; or
(b) remit or waive in whole or in part a penalty that has
been assessed.
(10) A penalty payable for each day, month or other period
during which a particular state of affairs exists or continues,
shall be payable in full for part of that day, month or other
period in which the state of affairs commences, continues or
ends.
177. A person who fails to register as required by section Failure to
102 or notify the Commissioner-General as required by register or notify
of changes in
sections 103(5) or 146(4) shall be liable for a penalty not
taxpayer
exceeding fifty thousand rupees. information.
178. (1) A person who fails to file a tax return on or Late filing of tax
before the date by which filing is required shall be liable to return.
pay a penalty equal to the greater of—
(a) five per cent of the amount of the tax owing, plus a
further one per cent of the amount of tax owing for
each month or part of a month during which the
failure to file continues; and
160 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(b) fifty thousand rupees plus a further ten thousand
rupees for each month or part of a month during
which the failure to file continues.
(2) The amount of the penalty in respect of a given tax
return under subsection (1) shall be limited to four hundred
thousand rupees.
(3) The penalty under this section shall be treated as an
addition to the tax liability for the tax period to which the
return relates and may be assessed and collected in the same
manner as the tax for that period.
Late payment. 179. (1) A person who fails to pay all or part of a tax
due for a tax period within fourteen days of the due date, or
by the due date specified in the notice of assessment, if later,
shall be liable to a penalty equal to twenty per cent of the
amount of tax due but not paid.
(2) A person who fails to pay all or part of an instalment
required under this Act within fourteen days of the due date
for the instalment shall be liable to a penalty equal to ten
per cent of the amount of tax due but not paid.
(3) Where an extension is granted under section 151, a
person shall not be liable to a penalty under subsection (1)
unless the extension period expires without payment having
been made.
Negligent or 180. Where tax is underpaid, as a result of an incorrect
fraudulent statement or a material omission in a taxpayer’s tax return,
underpayment.
and that statement or omission is a result of intentional
conduct or negligence on the part of the taxpayer, the
taxpayer shall be liable to a penalty in the amount of—
(a) twenty five per cent of the underpayment if
paragraph (b) does not apply; or
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 161
(b) seventy five per cent of the underpayment if the
amount of the underpayment is —
(i) higher than ten million rupees; or
(ii) higher than twenty five per cent of the
person’s tax liability for the period.
181. (1) A person who makes a statement to a tax official False or
that is false or misleading in a material particular shall be misleading
statements.
liable for a penalty if an amount properly payable by or
refundable to the person under this Act exceeds or is less
than the amount that would be payable or refundable if the
person were assessed on the basis that the statement was
true.
(2) The amount of the penalty for which the person is
liable shall be the greater of fifty thousand rupees —
(a) if an amount payable by the person would have
been less if it were determined on the basis of the
information provided in the statement, the amount
by which that amount would have been so reduced;
or
(b) if the amount of a refund that the person applied for
would be increased if it were determined on the
basis of the information provided in the statement,
the amount by which that amount would have been
so increased.
(3) No penalty shall be imposed under this section if the
person who made the statement did not know and could not
reasonably be expected to know that the statement was false
or misleading in a material particular.
(4) A reference in this section to a statement made to a tax
official shall include a reference to a statement made orally,
162 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
in writing, or in another form to that officer acting in the
performance of the officer’s duties under this Act, and shall
include a statement made—
(a) in an application, certificate, declaration,
notification, return, objection or other document
made, prepared, given, filed, submitted or furnished
under this Act;
(b) in any information required to be furnished under
this Act;
(c) in a document furnished to a tax official otherwise
than pursuant to this Act;
(d) in an answer to a question asked of a person by a
tax official; or
(e) to another person with the knowledge or reasonable
expectation that the statement would be conveyed
to a tax official.
(5) A reference in this section to a statement that is
misleading in a material particular shall include a reference
to a statement which contains an omission of a matter or
thing from the statement.
(6) This section shall not apply to conduct subject to the
penalty under section 180.
Failure to 182. (1) A person who fails to maintain proper
maintain documents as required by this Act shall be liable for a penalty
documents or
for each month or part of a month during which the failure
provide
continues.
facilities.
(2) The penalty shall be one thousand rupees per day for
each day the failure continues.
(3) Before assessing a penalty under this section, the
Commissioner-General shall issue a warning notice, and no
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 163
penalty shall be due under this section if the taxpayer
complies with the warning notice within the time specified
in the notice.
(4) A person who fails to render reasonable facilities and
assistance to a tax official as required by or under this Act
shall be liable for a penalty in an amount not exceeding ten
thousand rupees.
183. A person who fails to comply with a notice issued Failure to
under section 170 shall be liable for a penalty of twenty five comply with
third party
per cent of the difference between the amount payable by
notice.
the third party and the amount paid to the Commissioner-
General by the due date specified in the section 170 notice.
184. Where any person fails to comply with the Transfer pricing
requirements, of section 76 or 77 in relation to transactions penalties.
with associated enterprises, the Commissioner- General may
impose on such person—
(a) a penalty of a sum not exceeding one per centum of
aggregate value of transactions with associated
enterprises, where required documents have not
been maintained;
(b) a penalty of a sum not exceeding two hundred and
fifty thousand rupees, where required documents
have not been submitted;
(c) a penalty of a sum not exceeding two per centum
of aggregate value of transactions with its
associated enterprises, in case of non-disclosure of
any required information;
(d) a penalty of a sum not exceeding one hundred
thousand rupees, where required documents have
not been submitted on the specified date; or
164 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(e) a penalty of two hundred per centum of the value
of additional tax where such person has—
(i) concealed the particulars of his income, or
furnished inaccurate particulars of such
income; and
(ii) sought to evade by reason of concealment of
particulars of his income or the furnishing of
inaccurate particulars of such income,
and by notice in writing require such associated enterprise,
to pay such penalty within such period as may be specified
in such notice.
Failure to 185. (1) A person who fails to comply with a request for
comply with information properly made under this Act, within the
notice to give specified time, shall be liable for a penalty of an amount not
information.
exceeding one million rupees.
(2) Before assessing a penalty, the Commissioner-General
shall issue a notice of warning, and no penalty shall be due
under this section where the taxpayer complies with the
warning notice within thirty days of service of the notice.
CHAPTER XVIII
CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS
Criminal 186. (1) The Commissioner-General may investigate an
proceedings. offence under this Act.
(2) The Attorney-General or a delegate authorized by the
Attorney-General shall prosecute any person who commits
an offence under this Act. Such criminal proceedings shall
be initiated in the name of the Commissioner-General.
(3) Proceedings under this Act shall not affect criminal
proceedings that may be brought under any other law.
