Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 109
CHAPTER X
RECORD KEEPING AND INFORMATION COLLECTION
120. (1) A taxpayer engaged in business or investment Accounts and
activity or required under this Act to make a return shall records.
keep and maintain in Sri Lanka records and accounts
sufficient to record all transactions and to ascertain the gains
and profits made or the loss incurred in respect of those
transactions.
(2) The circumstances under which a person engaged in
business or investment activity shall have accounts prepared
by an approved accountant and the form by which an
approved accountant shall attest to the accuracy and
completeness of the accounts prepared shall be prescribed
by regulations.
(3) Where the Commissioner-General is of the opinion
that proper records or books of account are not being kept in
accordance with subsection (1) or (2), or where no records or
books of account are being kept, by any person carrying on
business then in addition to prosecution for an offence, the
Commissioner-General may direct such person to keep such
records or books of account as the Commissioner-General
may specify.
(4) The records or books of accounts required by this
section shall be kept at the place of business or investment
activity of the person unless the Commissioner-General
approves of them being kept at some other place.
(5) In addition to the records and accounts referred to in
subsections (1) and (2), a taxpayer shall also retain source
documents and underlying documentation utilized in the
creation of the records and accounts.
(6) A person required to prepare or retain records of a
transaction under this Act shall retain such records—
(a) for a period of five years from the date on which the
transaction took place; or
110 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(b) for a period exceeding five years, until expiration
of the time limit for assessment of tax for any tax
period to which the records are relevant and until
any related proceedings have been completed.
(7) Notwithstanding anything in any law, the
Commissioner-General may specify a system of simplified
record keeping for small businesses.
(8) Where a person has prepared records required under
this section in a language other than Sinhala, Tamil or
English, that person shall at that person’s expense, upon
request, provide a translation acceptable to the
Commissioner-General.
(9) Financial statements, invoices, books of original entry,
and all written communications between the Department and
the taxpayer shall be in Sinhala, Tamil or English with
amounts and values to be provided in Sri Lankan currency
as well.
(10) For the purposes of this section, source documents
include sales and purchase invoices, costing documents,
bookings, diaries, purchase orders, delivery notes, bank
statements, contracts, and other documents which relate to
an element of a transaction.
121. A bank or financial institution shall keep records
Obligations of
Financial of all transactions with a client, including the client’s identity.
Institutions.
122. (1) An authorised officer may enter a business
Access to
information, premises, or other premises open to the public, without prior
assets and land. notice, for an authorised purpose—
(a) during normal business hours; or
(b) at any time authorised in writing by a Magistrate
upon application by the Commissioner-General and
a showing the necessity to enter at that time.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 111
(2) The authorised officer may enter a taxpayer’s
dwelling, or other premises not referred to in subsection (1),
for an authorised purpose—
(a) with the consent of the taxpayer; or
(b) at the time stated and in the manner authorised in
writing by a Magistrate upon application by the
Commissioner-General and a showing of necessity
to enter that time.
(3) An authorised officer may enter on any property for
the purpose of surveying and valuing it—
(a) with the consent of the taxpayer; or
(b) after giving not less than twenty-four hours’ notice
in writing.
(4) An authorised officer who lawfully enters a premises
or a dwelling under subsection (1), (2) or (3) may—
(a) make a copy of a record;
(b) seize a record or other item that appears to be
relevant to an authorised purpose;
(c) seal records or other items;
(d) question any person in the premises or dwelling
with respect to any matter arising under this Act;
(e) open and examine any receptacle where any book
of account, register, record, or other document may
be found and examine and make an inventory of
any materials found therein;
(f) operate any computer and take a record of any data
stored within; or
112 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(g) count and make a record of any cash found.
(5) Where an authorised officer seizes a record or other
item pursuant to the authority provided under this section,
the Commissioner-General may make a copy of the record
or other item and shall return the original to the person in
the shortest time practicable.
(6) A copy of a document made pursuant to the power
conferred by this section may be produced in Court and
shall have the same evidentiary value as if it were an original.
(7) This section shall not authorise access to premises of
diplomatic, consular, or other missions of foreign countries
and international organizations which enjoy immunity from
such investigations under international law.
(8) Where taxpayer or other specified person fails to
provide any document required by the Commissioner-
General under this section or section 123 such document
shall not be used by the taxpayer or other person in a judicial
proceeding challenging an assessment, except with the
agreement of the Commissioner-General.
(9) The owner or lawful occupier of the premises or place
in respect of which power is exercised under this section
shall provide all reasonable facilities and assistance to the
authorised officer.
(10) A person whose books, records, or other items have
been seized under this section may examine them and make
copies, at the person’s expense, during office hours.
(11) An authorised officer shall sign for all records, books,
or other items removed and retained under this section and
shall return them to the owner within fourteen days of the
conclusion of the investigation or related proceedings.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 113
(12) The Commissioner-General may cause any land to
be visited, inspected, and measured and may call on any
person to produce for inspection any map, plan, title deed,
instrument of title, or other document in the custody or under
the control of that person which relates to the land.
(13) The Commissioner-General shall require a peace
officer to be present for the purposes of exercising powers
under this section, unless the Commissioner-General is of
the opinion that the presence of a peace officer shall not be
necessary in the circumstances.
(14) In this section-
“authorised purpose” means—
(i) the collection of information for the purpose
of determining the liability of person for
the payment of tax;
(ii) the collection of information for the purpose
of collecting tax from a specific person; or
(iii) the collection of information related to the
investigation or prosecution of a specific
person for an offence specified in this Act;
and
“business premises” includes a place where any
business is carried on, where anything is done
in connection with a business, a dwelling used
for the maintenance of stocks, keeping of
records, signing of contracts or agreements, and
attesting of deeds, and any place used for
meeting clients.
123. (1) For the purpose of this Act, the Assistant Notice to obtain
Commissioner may require from the tax payer or the information.
Commissioner may require from any other person, by giving
reasonable notice in writing—
(a) to furnish any information that is required by the
notice, including information concerning another
person;
114 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(b) to appear at the time and place designated in the
notice for the purpose of being examined or of
producing documents or other evidence in control
of that person which are referred in the notice; or
(c) to produce, within the time specified in the notice,
all documents in the person’s custody or under the
person’s control relating to the person’s or any other
person’s tax affairs as specified in the notice.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1),
the Commissioner may require any bank—
(a) to furnish to the Commissioner details of any
banking account or other assets which may be held
on behalf of any person, or to furnish a copy of
bank statements of any such banking account; or
(b) to permit the Commissioner or Assistant
Commissioner to inspect the records of the bank
with respect to the banking account of any person;
or
(c) to furnish annually a schedule showing the amount
of interest paid on deposits together with the names
and addresses of the persons to whom such interest
accrued or may require the attendance of any officer
of a bank before the Commissioner to give evidence
with regard to any bank account or other assets
which may be held by the bank on behalf of any
person.
(3) The provisions of subsection (1) shall extend to the
furnishing of information, the production of documents and
the giving of evidence to the Commissioner or Assistant
Commissioner in relation to—
(a) the payment of income by any person to a non-
resident; or
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 115
(b) the payment of remuneration by an employer to an
employee, the deduction of tax therefrom and the
accounting for any tax so deducted.
(4) The Commissioner or Assistant Commissioner may
make copies of books of account or other documents that
are produced for purposes of this section, or may retain them
where such course of action appears to the Commissioner-
General to be necessary for the purposes of any prosecution
or the substantiation of any assessment.
(5) Subject to subsection (8) of section 122, this section
shall have effect notwithstanding anything contrary in any
written law relating to confidentiality, privilege, or the
public interest with respect to the production of or access to
documents or other evidence, including a law relating to
bank secrecy and any contractual duty of confidentiality.
124. (1) For the purposes of determining whether a Search and
person has violated any provisions of this Act, the seizure with
warrant.
Commissioner-General or an authorised officer may make
an ex parte application to a Magistrate for a search and seizure
warrant.
(2) An application under subsection (1) shall set out the
following:-
(a) the provisions of this Act alleged to have been
contravened;
(b) the name of the person alleged to have contravened
the provisions of this Act;
(c) the premises to be searched; and
(d) the documents sought.
116 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(3) When an application is made under subsection (1),
Magistrate may issue a search and seizure warrant where he
is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds to believe that-
(a) the search and seizure is necessary to determine
whether a person has contravened any provision of
this Act or committed an offence under this Act;
and
(b) any documents (including in electronic format) that
are likely to be found on the premises which may
provide evidence as to the matters specified in
paragraph (a).
(4) A warrant issued under subsection (3) shall, as far as is
reasonably practical contain the following information:-
(a) the alleged commission of the offence under this
Act which is the basis for the application;
(b) the person alleged to have contravened any
provision of this Act or committed an offence under
this Act;
(c) the premises to be searched; and
(d) the documents that are the subject of the search.
Execution of a 125. (1) The owner or lawful occupier of premises to
search and
which access is sought under a search and seizure warrant
seizure with
warrant and may refuse access to the premises where the Commissioner-
search without General or authorised officer fails to produce the warrant.
warrant.
(2) An authorized officer shall not enter or remain on any
premises which is subject to search and seizure warrant if,
upon request by the owner or lawful occupier, the officer is
unable to produce an authorisation in writing from the
Commissioner-General permitting the officer to exercise
powers under the warrant.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 117
(3) In executing powers under a search and seizure
warrant, the Commissioner-General or authorised officer -
(a) shall have full and free access, at any time and
without notice-
(i) to the premises specified in the warrant;
(ii) to any relevant material located on the
premises, including in electronic format; and
(iii) to any data storage device located on the
premises containing relevant material;
(b) may open or cause to be opened or removed in
conducting a search of the premises specified in
the warrant, anything that the Commissioner-
General or authorised officer reasonably suspects
to contain relevant material;
(c) may make an extract, or a paper or electronic copy
of any relevant material, including on a data storage
device;
(d) may seize any relevant material;
(e) may, if a paper or electronic copy of relevant
material on a data storage device is not provided,
seize and retain the device for as long as is
necessary to copy the information required; and
(f) may search any person on the premises specified in
the warrant.
(4) The owner or lawful occupier of the premises to which
an exercise of search and seizure warrant relates shall provide
all reasonable facilities and assistance to the Commissioner-
General or authorised officer including the following:-
(a) answering questions, orally or in writing,
concerning whether a person has violated the
provisions of this Act; or
118 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(b) providing access to information necessary to
decrypt data to which access is sought in exercise
of a search and seizure warrant.
(5) The Commissioner-General or authorised officer
shall-
(a) make a written inventory of the relevant material
seized and provide a copy thereof to the owner of
the material; and
(b) sign for any relevant material or data storage device
removed and retained under this section.
(6) An authorized officer may search a person only if such
officer is of the same sex as the person being searched.
(7) For the purposes of the exercise of powers under this
section, the Commissioner-General or any authorised officer
may require a police officer to be present when executing a
warrant under this section.
(8) The Commissioner-General or authorised officer shall
not retain any document seized under this section for a period
longer than six months from the date of seizure unless the
document is required for the purposes of any proceedings
under this Act or any other written law.
CHAPTER XI
TAX RETURNS
Tax returns. 126. (1) Every person chargeable with income tax under
this Act shall furnish to the Assistant Commissioner in
accordance with subsection (2) a tax return in the specified
form containing such particulars as may be specified by the
Commissioner- General either in writing or by electronic
means within the stipulated time.
