Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 143
(2) The interest rate for payments pursuant to section 158
shall be one-half per cent per month or part month,
compounded monthly.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1) and
(2), the Minister may vary the interest rate by Order published
in the Gazette.
CHAPTER XVI
RECOVERY OF TAX
160. The Commissioner-General may proceed with any General.
remedy under this Chapter once the taxpayer is in default
pursuant to section 152.
161. Institution of action under this Chapter shall be Period of
commenced within five years of the date on which the limitations for
taxpayer was in default. collection.
162. (1) Where the Commissioner-General is unable to Extinguishment
recover an amount of tax, interest, or penalty due and payable of uncollectible
by a person under this Act, the Minister may, on amounts.
recommendation of the Commissioner-General and approval
by the Cabinet, order the extinguishment of the liability as
a debt due to the Government.
(2) Where the Commissioner-General determines that a
person whose debt was extinguished under subsection (1)
has assets that may be attached to recover all or part of the
unpaid amounts, the liability for the debt may be reinstated
by an order of the Minister, approved by Cabinet, revoking
the order made under subsection (1).
163. (1) Tax that is due and payable shall be a debt to Court
the Government and shall be payable to the Commissioner- proceedings.
General.
(2) Where a person fails to pay tax when it is due, the
Commissioner-General may commence proceedings in a
court of competent jurisdiction to recover the debt
outstanding in respect of the amount owing.
144 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(3) In any proceedings under this section, the production
of a certificate signed by the Commissioner-General, stating
the name of the defendant and the amount of tax owing,
shall be sufficient evidence that the amount is due for the
court to give judgment in that respect.
(4) In any proceedings for the recovery of tax it shall not
be a defence for the defendant that —
(a) the tax, the taxable income or other tax base is
incorrect;
(b) the tax charged is excessive; or
(c) the assessment is the subject of objection or appeal.
Lien. 164. (1) Where a taxpayer fails to pay a tax by the due
date, a lien in favour of the Commissioner-General shall be
created in the amount owing (together with interest, penalty
and costs of collection that may accrue) on all property
belonging to the taxpayer, and has priority as against all
other rights, except as otherwise provided in this section.
(2) The lien referred to in subsection (1) shall arise at
midnight at the commencement of the date of default and
shall continue until the liability is satisfied or becomes
unenforceable by reason of lapse of time.
(3) The lien imposed under this section shall not be valid
against the interest of a person who is a purchaser from the
taxpayer, a holder of a security interest granted by the
taxpayer, or other lien holder specified in regulations, if the
interest arises—
(a) before the person had actual knowledge of the lien;or
(b) before notice of the lien has been duly registered
by the Registrar of the High Court and the Registrar
of Lands,
whichever occurs first.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 145
(4) The Commissioner-General may file notice of a lien
at any time after a taxpayer is determined to be in default
pursuant to section 152.
(5) The Commissioner-General may specify procedures
for filing notice of a lien and may specify categories of
interests against which the lien shall not be valid even
though notice of the lien has been filed.
(6) At least fifteen days prior to registering a lien with the
Registrar of the High Court and the Registrar of Lands, the
Commissioner-General shall send notice of the intention to
register the lien to the taxpayer.
(7) Subsection (6) shall not apply where the
Commissioner-General believes that the ability to collect
tax is in jeopardy.
(8) The Commissioner-General may file action in the High
Court to enforce the lien created by this section.
(9) An affected person may apply to the Commissioner-
General for a release of the lien on the person’s property and
a decision by the Commissioner-General not to release a
lien may be appealed to the High Court.
165. (1) Where the taxpayer is in default, the Execution
Commissioner-General may cause execution to be levied against
taxpayer’s
on the taxpayer’s property but, except when a determination
property.
has been made under subsection (7) of section 164, the
Commissioner-General may proceed to execution only if
the taxpayer has been served with a notice of intention to
levy execution, and the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax
within thirty days after service of the notice.
(2) Where the Commissioner-General has reasonable
grounds to believe that the collection of tax is in jeopardy,
the Commissioner-General may demand immediate payment
146 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
of the tax and, on failure of the taxpayer to pay the taxwithin
the period stated in such demand, may proceed to levy
execution on the taxpayer’s property immediately,
notwithstanding subsection (3) of section 152.
(3) A person (including a bank or other financial
institution) in possession of, or holding security over,
property on which a levy has been made shall, on demand,
surrender the property, or discharge the security, to the
Commissioner-General, except in respect of the part of the
property that is already subject to attachment or execution
under judicial process.
(4) A person who fails to comply with the demand shall
be liable to the Commissioner-General in the amount of the
value of the property or security held, but not in excess of
the amount for the collection of which the levy is made.
(5) A person complying with the requirements of this
section or of section 170 shall, from the time of compliance,
be discharged from an obligation to the taxpayer or another
person to the extent of the value of property surrendered, or
the security discharged, to the Commissioner-General and
shall not be personally liable for loss or damage incurred as
a consequence of compliance.
(6) A levy under this section shall commence within five
years of the date on which the taxpayer was in default.
(7) A taxpayer’s personal effects and household
furnishings without substantial value shall be exempt from
a levy.
Sale of seized 166. (1) Unless the Commissioner-General has good
property. reason to release the seized property, the Commissioner-
General shall sell the property seized pursuant to a levy.
(2) The sales proceeds shall be applied first against the
expenses of the levy and sale, then against the liability for
penalties, interest and tax and the excess shall be returned
to the taxpayer.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 147
(3) The Commissioner-General may make conditions with
respect to the procedure on sale by public auction under the
power of sale conferred on the Commissioner-General by
this Act, and may—
(a) fix an amount of a deposit to be made by the highest
bidder;
(b) reserve a price;
(c) specify a time within which a deposit shall be made
and the events following which it may be forfeited;
and
(d) declare, in the event that the highest bidder fails to
make the required deposit or to complete the
purchase within the required time, the next highest
bidder to be the highest bidder and purchaser of the
property.
(4) Seized goods or property shall be sold at public auction
at a time and place as the Commissioner-General may direct,
but no sale shall take place within fourteen days of the seizure
of the goods or property, unless the goods seized are, in the
opinion of the Commissioner-General, of a perishable nature,
or the owner of the goods has requested their earlier sale.
(5) All goods seized under this Act shall be deposited in
some fit place, or left in the possession of some fit person, as
the Commissioner-General may determine.
(6) The date, time, and place of sale of all goods seized
under this Act shall be published in the Gazette and notice
thereof shall be given to the taxpayer prior to the date of sale
unless those goods are being sold before the expiry of the
fourteen day period under subsection (4).
(7) For the purpose of seizing and selling goods, a person
may, if expressly authorised in writing by the Commissioner-
General, execute a warrant of distress, and if necessary break
148 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
open a building in the day-time to levy such distress; and
may seek assistance from a police officer, when so required,
to assist in the execution of a warrant of distress and in
levying the distress.
(8) At the sale of goods or other property, a duly
designated officer of the Government may bid for and
purchase the goods or other property on behalf of the
Republic of Sri Lanka.
(9) Where goods or property advertised for sale are not
sold on the day appointed for the sale, the property may be
put up for sale again.
(10) The officer or other person conducting the sale may
report to the Commissioner-General the result of the sale
and the Commissioner-General may direct that, upon
payment of the purchase money the property be conveyed
to the purchaser.
(11) Where the Commissioner-General, after review of
the report provided pursuant to subsection (10), is satisfied
that there has been fraud or improper conduct in relation to
the sale of a property mentioned in the report or that the
relevant tax had been paid prior to the date of sale, the
Commissioner-General may declare the sale to be null and
void.
(12) Upon the execution of the deed of conveyance or
the assignment to the purchaser by the Commissioner-
General in accordance with this section, the goods or property
shall be vested in the purchaser freed and discharged from
all encumbrances arising under this Act.
(13) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act
authorising the Commissioner-General to sell a property for
the recovery of tax, the conveyance or assignment executed
to give effect to the sale shall not affect any interest, or right
of the Republic of Sri Lanka in the property.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 149
167. (1) Where the Commissioner-General is of opinion Departure
that any person who is a defaulter is about to or likely to Prohibition
Order.
leave Sri Lanka without paying:—
(a) tax that is payable by that person; or
(b) tax that is payable by a company in which that
person is a controlling member,
which has become default as assessed upon his or otherwise,
he may issue a certificate containing particulars of such tax
and the name of such person to a Magistrate, who shall on
receipt thereof issue a direction to the Controller General of
Immigration and Emigration to take such measures as may
be necessary to prevent such person from leaving Sri Lanka
without paying the tax or furnishing security to the
satisfaction of the Commissioner-General, for payment
thereof.
(2) At the time of issue of the certificate to the Magistrate,
the Commissioner-General shall issue to such person a
notification thereof by registered post. However, the non-
receipt of any such notification by such person shall not
invalidate preceedings under this section.
(3) Where the Commissioner-General has reasonable
grounds to believe that the departure from Sri Lanka of any
person who is a defaulter referred to in subsection (1) is
imminent and that sufficient time is not available to act in
terms of subsection (1), the Commissioner-General may issue
a departue prohibition order, in writing, to the Controller
General of Immigration and Emigration stating—
(i) the name and address of the person;
(ii) the amount of tax that is or will become payable by
the person or by the company in which the person
is a controlling member,
150 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
and the Controller General of Immigration and
Emigration shall take such measures as may be necessary
to prevent such person from leaving Sri Lanka without
paying the tax or furnishing security to the satisfaction
of the Commissioner- General, for payament thereof:
Provided however that the Commissioner General
shall, as soon as may be practicable and in any event
within seventy two hours of issuing such departure
prohibition Order, make an application to the Magistrate
to have the Order confirmed. Such departure prohibition
Order shall be treated as revoked where no application
has been made to the Magistrate within the
aforementioned time period.
(4) The production of a certificate signed by the
Commissioner-General or a Deputy Commissioner, stating
that the tax has been paid or that security had been furnished
to for the payment of the tax, or payment of the tax to a
police officer in charge of a police station, shall be sufficient
authority for allowing such person to leave Sri Lanka. Any
police officer to whom the amount of any tax has been paid
shall forthwith pay such amount to the Commissioner-
General.
Priority in 168. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other
bankruptcy.
written Law—
(a) the trustee in bankruptcy of an individual; or
(b) the liquidator of a company which is being wound
up,
shall apply the assets of the bankrupt individual or the
company, as the case may be, in payment of tax due
under this Act (whether assessed before or after the date of
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 151
bankruptcy or commencement of winding up) as a privileged
debt in priority over all debts of that individual or
company.
169. Where a government department, institution or Offset against
Ministry is about to make a payment to any person, other payments.
than a payment in respect of wages or salary, that department,
institution or Ministry may apply the whole or part of that
payment in satisfaction in whole or in part to any amount in
respect of which that person is in default under section 152,
and shall notify that person accordingly.
170. (1) If a taxpayer is in default, the Commissioner- Third party
General may serve a notice in writing on a third party debtor. debtors.
(2) On receiving a notice, the third party debtor shall
pay to the Commissioner-General (on account of the taxpayer
and by the date specified in the notice) the least of the
following three amounts:—
(a) the amount in respect of which the taxpayer is in
default;
(b) the money owed by the third party debtor to the
taxpayer; and
(c) the amount specified in the notice.
(3) A notice may be served on a third party debtor in
relation to an amount in a joint account only when:—
(a) all the holders of the joint account have unpaid tax
liabilities; or
(b) the taxpayer may withdraw funds from the account
(other than a partnership account) without the
signature or authorisation of the other account
holders.
152 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(4) The date for payment specified in the notice shall not
be before fifteen days following the date the third party
debtor is served with the notice.
(5) On receiving a notice under subsection (1), the third
party debtor shall not pay any amount to the taxpayer until
the Commissioner-General withdraws the notice.
(6) As soon as practicable after service of the notice on
the third party debtor, the Commissioner-General shall serve
the taxpayer with a copy of the notice.
(7) Amounts payable to the Commissioner-General by a
third party debtor under this section shall be a personal
liability of the third party debtor, which may be collected in
the same manner as a tax.
(8) Money owed to a taxpayer shall include—
(a) amounts currently owing or that may
subsequently become owing to a tax payer;
(b) amounts held or that may subsequently be held
for or on account of a tax payer;
(c) amounts held or that may subsequently be held
on account of a third person for payment to a
tax payer;
(d) amounts held by a person who has authority
from a third person to pay the money to a tax
payer; and
(e) in relation to a third party debtor that is a
financial institution, amounts that the tax
payer holds in an account with the institution.
(9) A notice may be served under this section on the
taxpayer’s employer, requiring the employer to withhold
and to pay to the Department, for a specified period, some
part of the future wages or salary that becomes payable to
the tax payer.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 153
(10) The first seventy five thousand rupees of wages per
month shall not be subject to withholding under a notice
referred to in subsection (9).
(11) When the third party debtor fails to pay the amount
specified within the time specified in a notice under this
section, the provisions of this Act apply as if such amount
were tax due and payable by the third party debtor on the
date by which the third party debtor was required to make
the payment to the Commissioner-General.
(12) In this section:—
“money” includes a debt obligation denominated
or payable in money; and
“third party debtor”, in relation to a taxpayer,
means a person who owes money to the tax
payer.
171. (1) A third party who pays to the Commissioner- Compliance with
General, pursuant to section 170 shall be treated as having notice.
acted with the authority of the taxpayer and of all other
persons concerned.
(2) Subsection (1) shall apply irrespective of a provision to
the contrary in any other written law, contract, or agreement.
(3) A notice issued under section 170 shall cease to have
effect once the tax or obligations described in it is paid or
otherwise satisfied.
(4) If a third party served with a notice under section 170
and is unable to comply with the notice by reason of lack of
money owing to or held for the taxpayer, the person shall
notify the Commissioner-General by notice hereinafter
referred to as a “third party notice”.
(5) A third party notice shall—
(a) be in writing;
154 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(b) set out the reasons for the inability; and
(c) be filed with the Commissioner-General as soon
as practicable after the third party becomes
aware of the inability and, in any event, before
the payment date specified in section 170
notice.
(6) On receipt of a third party notice the Commissioner-
General may, by notice in writing served on the third party—
(a) accept the third party notice and cancel or amend
the notice; or
(b) reject the third party notice.
(7) The filing of a third party notice shall have no effect
on the third party’s personal liability for amounts unless
and until the Commissioner-General cancels or amends the
section 170 notice.
(8) In this section, “third party” means a third party debtor
served with a notice under the preceding section.
Preservation of 172. (1) This section shall apply where the
assets. Commissioner-General has reasonable cause to believe that:—
(a) a taxpayer will not pay the full amount of tax owing
when due; and
(b) the taxpayer will take steps to frustrate the recovery
of the tax, including the dissipation of the
taxpayer’s assets.
(2) The Commissioner-General may make an ex-parte
application to the District Court having jurisdiction, for an
order (hereinafter referred to as an “Asset Preservation
Order”) for the preservation of the assets of the taxpayer and
prohibiting any person holding, controlling or managing
assets belonging to the taxpayer from transferring,
withdrawing, disposing or otherwise dealing with the assets.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 155
(3) The Commissioner-General may take such steps as
necessary to secure the assets of the taxpayer, including
seizure of the assets, pending making an application for an
order under subsection (2), which application shall be made
within twenty four hours from taking steps to secure the
taxpayer’s assets.
(4) The District Court shall issue an asset preservation
order when such court is satisfied that the requirements in
subsection (1) are satisfied and the order shall be served on
the taxpayer and any person having custody, control or
management of the taxpayer’s assets.
(5) An Asset Preservation Order shall be valid for ninety
days and may be extended by the District Court on
application by the Commissioner-General.
(6) A taxpayer whose funds are the subject of an Asset
Preservation Order may, within fifteen days of being served
with the order, apply to the District Court to discharge or
vary the order.
(7) Where the District Court has issued an Asset
Preservation Order, the Commissioner-General shall, within
thirty days of service of notice of the order, determine the
tax due by the taxpayer to whom the order relates and serve
a notice of a tax assessment on the taxpayer and commence
recovery of the tax assessed in accordance with the provisions
of this Act.
(8) An Asset Preservation Order shall automatically expire
upon service of a notice of assessment under subsection (7)
unless the District Court extends the Order upon application
by the Commissioner-General under subsection (5).
(9) A person who preserves funds pursuant to an Asset
Preservation Order shall be, for all purposes, deemed to have
acted within the authority thereof and such person and all
other persons concerned shall be indemnified in respect of
the actions taken in connection with the Order, against all
156 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
proceedings, civil or criminal and all process, judicial or
extrajudicial, notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary
in any written law, contract or agreement.
(10) A person who, without reasonable cause, fails to
comply with an Asset Preservation Order served on the
person shall be personally liable for the amount specified in
the Order.
Non-arm’s 173. (1) Where a taxpayer’s liability has not been
length satisfied after levy of execution on property known to the
transferees.
Commissioner-General, a person who has received assets of
the taxpayer in a transaction that is not at arm’s length in the
period of one year preceding the date of the levy shall be
secondarily liable for the tax to the extent of the value of the
assets received.
(2) Provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply to an
amount for which a person is liable under section 148.
Transferred tax 174. (1) When a taxpayer (hereinafter referred to as the
liabilities. “transferor”) has a tax liability in relation to a business carried
on by the taxpayer and the taxpayer has transferred all or
some of the assets of the business to an associate (hereinafter
referred to as the “transferee”), the transferee shall be
personally liable for the unpaid tax liability (hereinafter
referred to as the “transferred liability”) of the transferor in
relation to the business.
(2) Provisions of subsection (1) shall not preclude the
Commissioner-General from recovering the whole or part of
the transferred liability from the transferor.
Receivers. 175. (1) A receiver shall be required to notify the
Commissioner-General of the receiver’s appointment within
fourteen days after being appointed.
(2) The Commissioner-General may notify the receiver
of the amount that appears to the Commissioner-General to
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 157
be sufficient to provide for payment of tax owing, or that
will become owing, by the person whose assets are in the
possession or care of the receiver.
(3) A receiver shall not dispose of an asset situated within
Sri Lanka held in the receiver’s capacity as receiver, without
the prior permission of the Commissioner-General.
(4) A receiver shall set aside out of the proceeds of sale of
an asset the amount notified by the Commissioner-General
under subsection (2) or a lesser amount as may be agreed
with the Commissioner-General.
(5) A receiver shall be personally liable for the amount of
tax notified in subsection (2) to the extent of an amount
required to be set aside under subsection (4), if the receiver
fails to comply with the requirements of this section.
(6) In this section, “receiver” means a person who, with
respect to an asset situated in Sri Lanka, is—
(a) a liquidator of a company or other entity;
(b) a receiver appointed out of court or by a court;
(c) a trustee in bankruptcy;
(d) a mortgagee in possession;
(e) an executor, administrator or heir of a deceased
individual’s estate;
(f) conducting the affairs of an incapacitated
individual; or
(g) a successor in a corporate reorganisation.
158 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
CHAPTER XVII
PENALTIES
Penalties. 176. (1) This section shall apply to penalties under this
Act.
(2) Procedures for the assessment, payment, collection,
and dispute of a tax shall apply equally to penalties relating
to a tax.
(3) A person’s liability for a penalty under a section in
this Chapter is separate and distinct from the person’s
liability, if any, for a penalty under another section of this
Act or any other law and is in addition to interest levied
under Chapter XV and to a criminal sanction imposed under
Chapter XVIII.
(4) The burden of proof shall be on the Commissioner-
General to show non-compliance with the provisions of this
Act with respect to the imposition of a penalty.
(5) The Commissioner-General may make an assessment
of a penalty charged as if the penalty were tax payable under
this Act, and may specify the date on which the penalty is
payable.
(6) A notice of an assessment of a penalty shall be served
on the person who is laible to the penalty and shall state the
amount of the penalty payable, the provision under which it
is payable, and the due date for payment, and on service of
the notice —
(a) the notice and the assessment shall be treated as if
they were a notice and assessment of tax payable
under this Act;
(b) the amount of the penalty specified in the notice
shall be treated as tax payable under this Act; and
(c) the due date for payment is the date specified in the
notice.
