Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 169
(5) Where the Commissioner-General compounds an
offence under this section, the offender shall not be liable
for prosecution or penalty in respect of that offence.
(6) The Commissioner-General’s power under this section
shall be subject to the powers of the Attorney-General under
the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,
No. 15 of 1979, and the Commissioner-General shall give
the Attorney-General a copy of the order referred to in
subsection (3) at the time it is served on the taxpayer.
(7) The amount ordered to be paid under subsection (1)
shall be recoverable as if it were tax due and payable under
this Act.
CHAPTER XIX
REGULATIONS
194. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the Regulations.
purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles and
provisions of this Act and for matters authorised to be made
or prescribed under this Act.
(2) A regulation made under this section, other than a
regulation—
(a) prescribing a penalty for; or
(b) enhancing a penalty prescribed for,
the contravention of or failure to comply with, a regulation
made under this section,
may be declared to take effect from a date earlier than the
date of its publication in the Gazette.
(3) A regulation prescribing a penalty for the
contravention of or failure to comply with a regulation, shall
not come into operation until it is approved by Parliament
and notice of such approval is published in the Gazette.
170 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(4) Every regulation made by the Minister other than a
regulation referred to in subsection (2), shall come into
operation on the date of its publication in the Gazette or on
such other date as may be specified in the regulation.
(5) Every regulation referred to in subsection (2) shall as
soon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be
brought before Parliament for approval. Any such regulation
which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as
from the date of disapproval, but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder. Notification of the
date on which a regulation shall be deemed rescinded shall
be published in the Gazette.
CHAPTER XX
INTERPRETATION
Interpretation. 195. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires-
“agricultural business” means the business of producing
agricultural, horticultural or any animal produce and
includes an undertaking for the purpose of rearing
livestock or poultry;
“approved accountant” means –
(a) an accountant who is a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka; or
(b) an accountant who is a fellow member of the
Association of Accounting Technicians of Sri
Lanka incorporated under the Companies
Act, No. 7 of 2007 in relation to any person,
or any partnership other than a company
where the turnover of the business of the
person or partnership for the year does not
exceed one hundred million rupees;
