Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 195
(b) incurs a relevant financial cost when the person
incurs a financial cost with respect to a derivative
or foreign currency instrument.
(5) The Minister may by regulation prescribe -
(a) the derivative instruments; and
(b) the foreign currency instruments.
CHAPTER XXI
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
199. (1) The Minister may, on behalf of the Government, Implementation
enter into, amend, or terminate a mutual administrative of Mutual
Administrative
assistance agreement with a foreign government or
Assistance
governments.
Agreements.
(2) A mutual administrative assistance agreement for
which Parliament has issued an instrument of ratification
shall have legal effect in Sri Lanka according to its terms.
(3) If there is any conflict between the terms of a mutual
administrative assistance agreement to which subsection (2)
applies and any other law, the mutual administrative
assistance agreement shall prevail.
(4) If a tax treaty or mutual administrative assistance
agreement having legal effect in Sri Lanka provides for
exchange of information, or reciprocal assistance in the
recovery of tax or service of process, the Commissioner-
General shall use the powers available under this Act or any
other law to meet Sri Lanka’s obligations under the treaty or
agreement on the basis that a reference in this Act or other
law:
(a) to “tax” includes a foreign tax to which the exchange
of information or reciprocal assistance relates;
196 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(b) to “unpaid tax” (or words to that effect) includes an
amount specified in paragraph (a) that has not been
paid by the due date;
(c) to “taxpayer” includes a person liable for an amount
specified in paragraph (a); and
(d) to “tax law” includes the law under which a foreign
tax specified in paragraph (a) is imposed.
(5) In this section -
“international agreement” means an agreement
between the Republic of Sri Lanka and a foreign
government or governments;
“mutual administrative assistance agreement” means
a tax information exchange agreement or other
international agreement for mutual
administrative assistance in relation to taxation
matters.
Sinhala text to 200. In the event of any inconsistency between the
prevail in case
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
of inconsistency.
prevail.
CHAPTER XXII
TEMPORARY CONCESSIONS AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
Temporary 201. (1) The provisions of the Sixth Schedule to this Act
Concessions.
provide for concessions of a temporary nature, and apply to modify
the application of this Act for the periods set out therein.
