Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 53
(3) This section shall not apply to a partnership or
company that conducts the same business after a change as
it conducted before the change for a period of two years after
the change.
CHAPTER VI
SPECIAL INDUSTRIES
Division I: Petroleum Operations
65. (1) Any individual or entity who or which has Petroleum
entered into an agreement as a contractor or sub-contractor operations.
under the Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 2003 shall be
deemed to be resident in Sri Lanka over the term of such
contract or sub contract, as the case may be, for the purposes
of this Act.
(2) The turnover from exports and local sales of petroleum
exploited under any Petroleum Resources Agreement
referred to in subsection (1), shall be determined on the basis
of accepted commercial practices and be subject to any
specific provisions in the Petroleum Resources Agreements,
entered into under the Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of
2003.
(3) The income, gains and profits from the business of
petroleum exploitation under any Petroleum Resources
Agreement referred to in subsection (1), shall be ascertained
after allowing the following deductions in addition to other
allowable deductions under the provisions of this Act, and
shall notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
provision of this Act, be chargeable with income tax at the
appropriate rate set out in the First Schedule to this Act,
provided that the same item of expenditure shall not be
deducted more than once:-
(a) payments made to service sub-contractors for
conducting petroleum operations;
54 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(b) one hundred percent of the cost of acquisition of
any plant, machinery or equipment used for the
recovery of petroleum resources, instead of the
capital allowances under section 16. Any proceeds
realised on the sale of such assets shall be
considered as a receipt from such business;
(c) interest expenses;
(d) royalty paid on petroleum resources recovered
under any Petroleum Resources Agreement;
(e) all expenses on the development and production
of petroleum, including capital expenses, where a
deduction under paragraph (b) above has not been
granted;
(f) in the year of first commercial production, all costs
incurred by any contractor in the exploration for
unsuccessful wells in exploration blocks under any
Petroleum Resources Agreement, up to and
including such year of first commercial production;
(g) any costs incurred by any contractor in the
exploration for unsuccessful wells in exploration
blocks under any Petroleum Resources Agreement
in any year of assessment, after the first commercial
production.
Division II:Financial Institutions and Insurance Entities
Banking 66. (1) For the purposes of this Act, a person’s activities
business. in conducting a banking business shall be treated as a
business separate from any other activity of the person and
the person’s income or loss from the business for a year of
assessment shall be calculated separately.
(2) Where a person conducting a banking business makes
specific provision for a debt claim in accordance with the
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 55
relevant directives made by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka,
the Commissioner-General may specify the extent to which
that provision shall be deductible, but a person shall not
deduct such provision unless such directives are complied
with.
(3) In this section, “banking business” means the banking
business of a financial institution.
67. (1) In the case of a person engaged in the business Insurance
business.
of life insurance, whether mutual or proprietary, the gains
and profits from the business on which tax is payable shall
be ascertained by taking the aggregate of–
(a) the surplus distributed to share holders from the
life insurance policy holders fund as certified by
the Appointed Actuary functioning within the
Regulation of the Insurance Industry Act, No. 43 of
2000; and
(b) the investment income of the share holder fund less
any expenses incurred in the production of such
income,
subject to the deductions claimable under section 19 in
arriving at the income from the business.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the surplus
distributed to a life insurance policy holder who shares the
profits of a person engaged in the business of life insurance
in a given year, as provided in the Regulation of Insurance
Industry Act, No. 43 of 2000, shall be deemed as gains and
profits of that person from the business and subject to tax
accordingly.
(3) The profits of a non-resident company whether mutual
or proprietary, from the business of insurance (other than
life insurance) shall be ascertained by taking the gross
56 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
premiums from insurance business in Sri Lanka (less any
premiums returned to the insured and premiums paid on
reinsurance) and deducting therefrom a reserve from
unexpired risks at the percentage adopted by the company
in relation to its operations as a whole for such risks at the
end of the period for which the profits shall be ascertained,
and adding thereto a reserve similarly calculated for
unexpired risks outstanding at the commencement of such
period, and from the net amount so arrived at, deducting the
actual losses (less the amount recovered in respect thereof
under reinsurance), the agency expenses in Sri Lanka and a
fair proportion of the expenses of the head office of the
company, due account being taken in each case by set-off
against such expenses, of any income or profits other than
premiums.
(4) Where the Commissioner-General is satisfied that by
reason of the limited extent of the business transacted in Sri
Lanka by a non-resident insurance company, it would be
unreasonable to require the company to furnish the
particulars necessary for the application of subsections (1)
and (2), the Commissioner-General may notwithstanding the
provisions of such subsections, permit the profits of the
company to be ascertained by reference to such proportion
of the total profits and income of the company as is equal to
the proportion which its premiums from insurance business
in Sri Lanka bears to its total premiums, or on any other
basis considered equitable in all the circumstances of the
case.
Division III: Non-Governmental Organizations and
Charitable Institutions
Non- 68. (1) A non-government organization shall pay
Governmental additional tax of three percent on amounts received in
organizations
each year of assessment by way of grant, donation or
and charitable
institutions. contribution or in any other manner at the rate set out in the
First Schedule.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 57
(2) Where the Commissioner-General is satisfied that any
non-governmental organization is engaged, in any year of
assessment, in –
(a) rehabilitation and the provision of infrastructure
facilities and livelihood support to displaced
persons in any area identified by the Government
for the purposes of such rehabilitation and
provision; or
(b) any other activity approved by the Minister as
being of humanitarian in nature, taking into
consideration the nature and gravity of any disaster
and the magnitude of relief required to be provided
consequently,
the Commissioner-General may reduce or remove the tax
payable by such non-governmental organization for that
year of assessment if it appears that such reduction is just
and equitable in all the circumstance of the case.
(3) Where any charitable institution provides in any
year of assessment institutionalized care for the sick or
the needy and where the Commissioner-General is satisfied
that the cost of provision of such care is borne by such
charitable institution, the Commissioner-General may,
subject to specified conditions, grant a tax credit against
the tax payable on the charitable institution’s taxable
income for the year of assessment, provided it appears to
the Commissioner-General that such reduction or remission
is just and equitable in all the circumstances of the case.
CHAPTER VII
INTERNATIONAL
Division I: Residence and Sources
69. (1) An individual shall be a resident in Sri Lanka Resident
for a year of assessment if the individual – persons.
(a) resides in Sri Lanka;
