Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 77
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 2
(calculated under subsection (3) of section 2
without any deduction for any foreign tax credit)
is of the taxable income of the person for the
year; and
“assessable foreign income” means foreign source
income included in the assessable income of a
resident person for a year of assessment from an
employment, business, investment or other
source as the case requires.
CHAPTER VIII
TAX PAYMENT PROCEDURE
Division I: Methods and Time for Payments
82. (1) Tax imposed under section 2 shall be payable Methods and
by withholding under Division II, by instalment under time for
payment.
Division III or on assessment under Division IV.
(2) Tax shall be payable-
(a) in the case of tax payable by withholding, at
the time provided for in section 86;
(b) in the case of tax payable by instalment, on
the date by which the instalment is to be paid
under section 90;
(c) in the case of tax payable on assessment –
(i) on the date on which the capital gains
tax return shall be filed under section
93 for a person with taxable income
consisting of a gain from the realisation
of an investment asset; or
(ii) on the date that is six months after the
end of the year of assessment for which
78 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
a return of income shall be filed under
section 93 in relation to tax payable
on assessment not covered by
subparagraph (i); and
(d) in any other case not stated in subsection (1),
on the date stated in a notice for payment.
Division II: Tax Payable by Withholding
Withholding by 83. (1) The Commissioner-General may specify the
employers. circumstances in which an employer shall withhold tax from
a payment that is to be included in calculating the taxable
income of an employee.
(2) The obligation of an employer to withhold tax
under subsection (1) shall not be reduced or extinguished
when –
(a) the employer has a right or is under an obligation
to deduct and withhold any other amount from the
payment; or
(b) any other law provides that an employee’s income
from employment shall not be reduced or subject
to attachment.
Withholding 84. (1) Subject to subsection (3), a person shall withhold
from investment tax at the rate provided for in paragraph 10 of the First
returns.
Schedule to this Act where –
(a) such person –
(i) pays a dividend, interest, discount, charge,
natural resource payment, rent, royalty,
premium or retirement payment or pays
amounts as winnings from a lottery, reward,
betting or gambling; or
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 79
(ii) being the precedent partner or in the absence
of such partner in Sri Lanka, the agent of the
partnership in Sri Lanka, at the time that each
partner’s relevant share of any partnership
income of the partnership year under
subsection (9) of section 53 has been
allocated; and
(b) the payment or allocation has a source in Sri Lanka.
(2) The National Gem and Jewellery Authority established
by the National Gem and Jewellery Authority Act, No. 50 of
1993 shall withhold tax at the rate provided in paragraph 10
of the First Schedule, from the sale price of any gem sold at
an auction conducted by it, from the sum payable to the
seller of such gem and at the time of such sum is paid to the
seller.
(3) This section shall not apply to –
(a) payments subject to withholding under
section 83;
(b) payments made by individuals, unless made
in conducting a business;
(c) interest paid to a financial institution on the
ordinary loans and advances provided by it;
or
(d) interest or discount paid to any person on
Security or Treasury Bond under the
Registered Stocks and Securities Ordinance
(Chapter 420) or Treasury Bill under the
Local Treasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter
417); or
(e) payments or allocations that are exempt
amounts under section 9.
80 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
Withholding 85. (1) Subject to subsection (3), a person shall withhold
from service tax at the rate provided for in paragraph 10 of the First
fees and contract
Schedule to this Act where such person –
payments.
(a) pays a service fee with a source in Sri Lanka to a
resident individual who is not an employee of the
payer –
(i) for teaching, lecturing, examining,
invigilating or supervising an examination;
(ii) as a commission or brokerage to a resident
insurance, sales or canvassing agent;
(iii) as an endorsement fee;
(iv) in relation to the supply of any article on a
contract basis through tender or quotation;
or
(v) for such other matters as may be prescribed
by regulation; or
(b) pays a service fee or an insurance premium with a
source in Sri Lanka to a non-resident person.
(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), regulations
may be made prescribing –
(a) that a resident person shall withhold tax when the
person makes a payment to a non-resident person
of a type referred to in paragraph (h) or (i) of section
73 (land, sea or air transport or telecommunication
services); and
(b) the rate at which the tax referred to in paragraph (a)
shall be withheld.
(3) This section shall not apply to –
(a) payments subject to withholding under
section 83;
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 81
(b) payments made by individuals, unless made
in conducting a business;
(c) payments that are exempt amounts; or
(d) payments of specified fees in respect of which
a certificate is presented by the recipient
person confirming that the payments are
chargeable with the Economic Service
Charge under the Economic Service Charge
Act, No. 13 of 2006.
.
86. (1) Every withholding agent shall pay to the Statements and
Commissioner-General within fifteen days after the end of payments of tax
withheld or
each calendar month any tax that has been withheld in treated as
accordance with this Division during the month. withheld.
(2) Every withholding agent shall file with the
Commissioner-General within thirty days after the end of
each year ending on the thirty first day of March an annual
statement setting out the following:–
(a) payments made by the agent during the period that
are subject to withholding under this Division;
(b) the name, address and tax identification number of
the withholdee;
(c) tax withheld from each payment; and
(d) any other information that the Commissioner-
General may specify.
(3) A withholding agent who fails to withhold tax in
accordance with this Division shall however pay the tax
that should have been withheld in the same manner and at
the same time as tax that is withheld.
82 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(4) Where a withholding agent fails to withhold tax from
a payment as required by this Division –
(a) the withholdee shall be jointly and severally liable
with the withholding agent for the payment of the
tax to the Commissioner-General; and
(b) the tax shall be payable by the withholdee within
fifteen days after the end of the calendar month in
which the payment is received.
(5) A withholding agent who withholds tax under this
Division and pays the tax to the Commissioner-General shall
be treated as having paid the amount withheld to the
withholdee for the purposes of any claim by the withholdee
for payment of the amount withheld.
(6) A withholding agent who fails to withhold tax under
this Division but pays the tax that should have been withheld
to the Commissioner-General in accordance with subsection
(3) shall be entitled to recover an equal amount from the
withholdee.
Withholding 87. (1) A withholding agent shall prepare and serve on
certificates. a withholdee a withholding certificate –
(a) separately for each period referred to in subsections
(3) and (4);
(b) at the time referred to in those subsections; and
(c) in the form specified.
(2) A withholding certificate shall set out the amount of
payments made to the withholdee during the period and tax
withheld by the withholding agent from those payments
under this Division.
(3) Subject to subsection (4) a withholding certificate
shall cover a calendar month and shall be served within
thirty days after the end of the month.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 83
(4) In the case of tax withheld under section 83, a
withholding certificate-
(a) shall cover the part of the year during which the
employee is employed; and
(b) shall be served not later than the thirtieth day of
April of that year or, where the employee has ceased
employment with the withholding agent during the
year, no more than thirty days from the date on
which the employment ceased.
(5) A resident company paying a dividend to a member
shall also prepare and serve a certificate on that member
(whether or not combined with or forming part of, a
withholding certificate) setting out the amount of the
dividend that is attributable to or derived from, another
dividend received by that resident company that either was
subject to withholding under section 84 to withholding tax
or in respect of which another certificate was received by the
resident company under this subsection.
88. (1) For the purposes of this Act, the following shall Final
be the final withholding payments:- withholding
payments.
(a) dividends paid by a resident company to a resident
person;
(b) interest paid to or treated as being derived by–
(i) a resident individual (other than such amount
of interest paid to a senior citizen falling
within the relief threshold in paragraph 2 (d)
of the Fifth Schedule to this Act);
(ii) a charitable institution;
(c) amounts paid as winnings from a lottery, reward,
betting or gambling, other than amounts received
84 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
in conducting a business consisting of betting and
gaming; and
(d) payments made to non-resident persons that are
subject to withholding under this Division, or would
be so subject if paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of
section 84 and paragraph (b) of subsection (3) of
section 85 were disregarded, other than payments
derived through a Sri Lankan permanent
establishment.
(2) The following shall relieve a withholdee’s tax liability
under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 2:-
(a) tax withheld from a final withholding payment
under this Division; and
(b) tax paid with respect to a final withholding payment in
accordance with subsection (3) or (4) of section 86.
(3) Where a final withholding payment is not subject to
withholding (whether by reason of paragraph (b) of
subsection (2) of section 84 or paragraph (b) of subsection
(3) of section 85 or that the payer is a non-resident) the
recipient’s tax liability under paragraph (b) of subsection
(1) of section 2 with respect to the payment shall be
payable by way of instalment and assessment. For the
purposes of applying Divisions III and IV, the liability shall
be treated as a liability under paragraph (a) of subsection (1)
of section 2.
Credit for non- 89. (1) The withholdee of a payment that is not a final
final withholding payment shall be treated as having paid any
withholding tax.
tax –
(a) withheld from the payment under this Division; or
(b) paid with respect to the payment in accordance
with subsection (3) or (4) of section 86.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 85
(2) A withholdee shall be entitled to a tax credit in an
amount equal to the tax treated as paid under subsection (1)
for the year of assessment in which the payment is
derived.
Division III: Tax Payable by Instalment
90. (1) A person who is an “instalment payer” shall pay Payment of tax
tax by quarterly instalments if he derives or expects to derive by quarterly
instalment.
assessable income during a year of assessment –
(a) from a business or investment; or
(b) from an employment where the employer is not
required to withhold tax under section 83.
(2) An instalment payer shall pay instalments of tax-
(a) in the case of a person whose year of
assessment is a twelve month period ending
on the thirty first day of March, on or before
the fifteenth day respectively of August,
November and February in that year of
assessment and the fifteenth day of May of
the next succeeding year of assessment; or
(b) in any other case, on or before the fifteenth
day after each three-month period
commencing at the beginning of each year of
assessment and a final instalment on or before
the fifteenth day after the end of each year of
assessment, unless it coincides with the end
of one of the three-month periods.
(3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), the amount of each
instalment of tax payable by an instalment payer for a year
86 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
of assessment shall be calculated according to the following
formula:–
A — C
B
where ‘A’ is the current estimated tax payable under
section 91 or 92 by the instalment payer
for the year of assessment;
‘B’ is the number of instalments remaining for
the year of assessment including the
current instalment; and
‘C’ is the sum of any –
(a) tax paid during the year of
assessment, but prior to the due date
for payment of the instalment, by the
person by previous instalment under
this section;
(b) tax withheld under Division II
during the year, but prior to the due
date for payment of the instalment,
from payments received by the
person that are included in
calculating the person’s income for
the year; and
(c) tax paid in accordance with
subsection (3) or (4) of section 86
that is paid to the Commissioner-
General by a withholding agent or
the person as withholdee during the
year but prior to the due date for
payment of the instalment.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 87
(4) The Commissioner-General may specify by a Gazette
Notification -
(a) that a particular class of persons shall pay tax by
instalments otherwise than or in substitution for
instalments payable under this section;
(b) that a particular class of organised association or
recognized occupational group shall collect from
its members tax payable by those members by
instalment under this section;
(c) the terms and conditions on which the tax shall be
collected; and
(d) the terms and conditions on which the association
or group shall account to the Commissioner-General
for the tax.
(5) An instalment payer shall be entitled to a tax credit
for a year of assessment in an amount equal to the tax paid
by way of instalment for the year.
91. (1) Every person who is an instalment payer for a Statement of
year of assessment under section 90 shall file with the estimated tax
payable.
Commissioner-General by the date for payment of the first
tax instalment an estimate of tax payable for the year.
(2) The estimate under subsection (1) shall, subject to
any instructions by the Commissioner-General to the
contrary –
(a) be in the specified manner and form and state–
(i) the person’s assessable income for the year of
assessment from each employment, business
and investment and the source of that income;
(ii) the person’s taxable income for the year and
the tax payable with respect to that income
88 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
under paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of
section 2; and
(iii) any other information that the Commissioner-
General may specify; and
(b) have attached to it any other information that the
Commissioner-General may specify.
(3) Subject to subsection (6) of this section and subsection
(3) of section 92, the tax referred to in subparagraph (ii) of
paragraph (a) of subsection (2) shall be the person’s estimated
tax payable for the year of assessment.
(4) In estimating tax payable for a year of assessment
under subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (a) of subsection (2), a
person may take into account a foreign tax credit to be
claimed under section 80. However, in doing so a person
may take account of foreign income tax only if the person
has paid the tax or the person reasonably estimates that the
tax will be paid during the year.
(5) An instalment payer’s estimate under subsection (1)
shall remain in force for the whole of the year of assessment
unless the person files a revised estimate with the
Commissioner-General.
(6) A revised estimate filed by a person under subsection
(5) shall be the person’s estimated tax payable for the year of
assessment, but only for the purposes of calculating
instalments payable under section 90 after the date the
revised estimate is filed with the Commissioner-General.
Statement of 92. (1) The Commissioner-General may specify by
estimated tax notice in writing that an instalment payer or class of
payable not
instalment payers is not required to submit an estimate under
required.
section 91.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 89
(2) Where an instalment payer is not required to submit
an estimate by reason of subsection (1), the Commissioner-
General shall –
(a) make an estimate of the person’s estimated tax
payable for the year of assessment, which may be
based on the tax payable for the previous year of
assessment with an uplift; and
(b) serve on the instalment payer a written notice
stating the Commissioner-General’s estimate and
the manner in which it is calculated.
(3) Where the Commissioner-General serves a notice
under subsection (2), for the purpose of section 90 the
estimated tax payable by the person for the year of assessment
shall be the amount estimated by the Commissioner-General.
Division IV: Tax Payable on Assessment
93. (1) Subject to section 94 and subsection (2), every Return of
person shall file with the Commissioner-General not later income and
capital gains.
than eight months after the end of each year of assessment a
return of income for the year.
(2) A return of income of a person for a year of assessment
shall subject to any instructions by the Commissioner-
General–
(a) be in the manner and form specified by the
Commissioner-General and furnishing the
following details :–
(i) the person’s assessable income for the year
from each employment, business and
investment and the source of that income;
(ii) the person’s taxable income for the year and
the tax payable with respect to that income
90 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
under paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of
section 2;
(iii) any tax paid by the person for the year by
withholding, instalment or assessment for
which a tax credit is available under section
89 or 90;
(iv) the amount of tax remaining to be paid for
the year calculated as the sum of the tax
referred to in subparagraph (ii) less the tax
already paid referred to in subparagraph (iii);
and
(v) any other information that the Commissioner-
General may specify;
(b) have attached to it –
(i) any withholding certificates supplied to the
person under section 87 with respect to
payments derived by the person during the
year; and
(ii) any other information that the Commissioner-
General may specify.
(3) Every person with taxable income consisting of a gain
from the realisation of an investment asset shall file with the
Commissioner-General a capital gains tax return not later
than one month after that realisation.
(4) A capital gains tax return of a person shall, subject to
any instructions by the Commissioner-General to the
Contrary be in the manner and form specified by the
Commissioner-General setting out the following :–
(i) the person’s assessable income consisting of the
gain from the realisation of the investment asset,
including the calculation of that gain;
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 91
(ii) the person’s taxable income with respect to that
gain and the tax payable on it under paragraph (a)
of subsection (1) of section 2;
(iii) any tax paid by the person for the year by instalment
attributable to the gain for which a tax credit is
available under section 90; and
(iv) any other information that the Commissioner-
General may specify.
94. (1) Subject to subsection (2), a return of income for Return of
a year of assessment shall not be required under section 93 income not
required.
from –
(a) a resident individual –
(i) who has no tax payable for the year under
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 2;
or
(ii) whose tax payable for the year under
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 2
relates exclusively to income from
employment subject to withholding under
section 83; or
(b) a non-resident person who has no tax payable for
the year under paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of
section 2.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Commissioner-
General may serve a notice in writing on a person requiring
the person to file a return.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1) a person may elect to
file a return even though the person is not required to, where
that person ceased an employment during the year.
95. A return of income or capital gains tax return filed Assessment.
under section 93 shall result in a self-assessment.
92 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
Payment of tax 96. (1) Each trustee of a trust shall be responsible for
on realisation of performing any duties or obligations imposed by this Act
investment assets on the trust in relation to its taxable income consisting of a
by partnerships
gain from the realisation of an investment asset, including
and trusts.
the payment of tax on that gain.
(2) Each partner in a partnership shall be responsible for
performing any duties or obligations imposed by this Act
on the partnership in relation to its taxable income consisting
of a gain from the realisation of an investment asset, including
the payment of tax on that gain.
(3) When a trust has more than one trustee, the duties and
obligations imposed under this section on the trustee of the
trust shall apply jointly and severally to the trustees but
may be discharged by any of them.
(4) The duties and obligations imposed under this section
on the partners in a partnership shall apply jointly and
severally to the partners but may be discharged by any of
them.
(5) The executor shall be responsible for performing any
duties or obligations imposed by this Act in respect of a
deceased person in relation to their taxable income consisting
of a gain from the realisation of an investment asset, including
the payment of tax on that gain.
PART II
CHAPTER IX
ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS
Division I: Administration of this Act
Officers. 97. (1) For the purposes of this Act, there shall be
appointed a Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue, such
number of Deputy Commissioner-Generals of Inland
