118 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(b) providing access to information necessary to
decrypt data to which access is sought in exercise
of a search and seizure warrant.
(5) The Commissioner-General or authorised officer
shall-
(a) make a written inventory of the relevant material
seized and provide a copy thereof to the owner of
the material; and
(b) sign for any relevant material or data storage device
removed and retained under this section.
(6) An authorized officer may search a person only if such
officer is of the same sex as the person being searched.
(7) For the purposes of the exercise of powers under this
section, the Commissioner-General or any authorised officer
may require a police officer to be present when executing a
warrant under this section.
(8) The Commissioner-General or authorised officer shall
not retain any document seized under this section for a period
longer than six months from the date of seizure unless the
document is required for the purposes of any proceedings
under this Act or any other written law.
CHAPTER XI
TAX RETURNS
Tax returns. 126. (1) Every person chargeable with income tax under
this Act shall furnish to the Assistant Commissioner in
accordance with subsection (2) a tax return in the specified
form containing such particulars as may be specified by the
Commissioner- General either in writing or by electronic
means within the stipulated time.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 119
(2) The Commissioner-General may specify—
(a) the form for returns;
(b) the information to be furnished on the return
and attachments, if any, required to be filed with
the return; and
(c) the manner of filing.
(3) An Assistant Commissioner shall not be bound by a
tax return or information provided by, or on behalf of, a
taxpayer and the Assistant Commissioner may determine a
taxpayer’s tax liability based on any sources of information
available to the Assistant Commissioner.
(4) A taxpayer or the taxpayer’s duly authorised agent,
shall sign the return, attesting to its accuracy and
completeness.
(5) Where a return or part of a return was prepared for
reward by some other person, including by an approved
accountant, other than a full-time employee of the taxpayer,
that other person shall also sign the return.
(6) An Assistant Commissioner may, by notice in writing,
require a person to file, whether on that person’s own behalf
or as agent or trustee for another person, additional returns
for a tax period as the Assistant Commissioner requires, even
if the taxpayer has not submitted a return for the period,
with that person to be given a period of not less than seven
days to file the additional returns.
127. (1) Where it appears to the Commissioner-General Notice to
that any person who is liable to furnish a return and has not require filing.
done so, the Commissioner-General may, by notice in
writing, require such person to furnish a return within such
time as may be specified in the notice, not being less than
fourteen days from the date of service of such notice.
120 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(2) Nothing in this section extends the time limits
provided under this Act for the furnishing of a return.
Return deemed 128. Every return, statement, or form purporting to be
to be furnished furnished under this Act by or on behalf of any person shall
by due
be deemed to have been furnished by that person or with the
authority.
person’s authority, as the case may be, unless the contrary is
proved, and any person signing such return, statement, or
form shall deemed to be cognisant of all matters contained
therein.
Information 129. The provisions of this Act relating to returns shall
Returns. apply to a person required under this Act to file a return of
information related to matters other than the person’s own
tax liability.
Extension of 130. (1) The Commissioner-General may extend the time
time to file
limit specified for filing a tax return where the taxpayer or
returns.
other person required to file the return applies for the
extension by due date.
(2) The granting of an extension of time under subsection
(1) shall not affect the due date for payment of tax, unless an
extension of time for payment is also expressly granted.
Tax return duly 131. A tax return that is purported to be filed by or on
filed. behalf of a taxpayer shall be treated as having been filed by
the taxpayer or with the taxpayer’s authority unless the
contrary is proved.
CHAPTER XII
ASSESSMENTS
Self-assessments. 132. (1) A self-assessment taxpayer who has filed a self-
assessment return in the approved form for a tax period shall
be treated, for all purposes of this Act, as having made an
assessment of the amount of tax payable as set out in the
return (including a nil amount) for the tax period to which
the return relates.
