210 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(Section 9)
THIRD SCHEDULE
EXEMPT AMOUNTS
The following shall be exempt amounts:-
(a) amounts derived by –
(i) the Government of Sri Lanka or a local authority,
including any Government department;
(ii) the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, including the
Monetary Board;
(iii) any University which is established or deemed to be
established under the Universities Act, No. 16 of
1978 or the Buddhist and Pali University of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 74 of 1981;
(iv) any Government assisted private school other than
that incorporated under the Companies Act, No. 7
of 2007 which is registered with the Ministry of
Education and mandated to follow the Circulars and
mandated to follow the Circulars issued by
Government and the Ministry of Edunation;
(v) any registered society within the meaning of the
Co-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972;
(vi) the Government of a foreign country of foreign
territory to the extent specified under a diplomatic
immunities law or a similar law;
(vii) an international organisation to the extent specified
under a diplomatic immunities law or a similar law
or an agreement between the organisation and the
Government of Sri Lanka, provided that the
exemption provided under the agreement shall be
broader than that provided under diplomatic
immunities law or a similar law;
(b) capital sums paid to a person as compensation or a gratuity
in relation to –
(i) personal injuries suffered by the person; or
(ii) the death of another person;
(c) the pension of a person where the pension income is paid
by the Government of Sri Lanka or a department of the
Government of Sri Lanka;
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 211
(d) an amount paid to an employee at the time of retirement
from—
(i) any pension fund or the Employees Trust Fund
established by the Employees Trust Fund Act,
No.46 of 1980, as represents income derived by
that fund, for any period commencing on or after
April 1, 1987, from investments made by it;
(ii) a provident fund approved by the Commissioner-
General;
(e) the income of an individual entitled to privileges to the
extent provided for by –
(i) a diplomatic immunities law or a similar law;
(ii) an Act giving effect to the Convention on the
Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations and
the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of
the Specialised Agencies of the United Nations; or
(iii) regulations made under this Act relating to an
international organisation, or a law or Act referred
to in subparagraph (i) or (ii);
(f) a gain made by a resident individual from the realisation of
an investment asset that does not exceed Rs. 50,000 and
where the total gains made by the resident individual from
the realisation of investment assets in the year of assessment
do not exceed Rs. 600,000, except –
(i) where the Commissioner-General is satisfied that an
investment asset has been realised in two or more
parts for the purpose of taking advantage of this
paragraph, any gain arising from the realisations
shall be exempt under this paragraph only if the
total gain from the realisation of all parts does not
exceed Rs. 50,000 and the total gains made by the
resident individual from the realisation of investment
assets in the year of assessment do not exceed Rs.
600,000;
(ii) in the case of the realisation of an investment asset
that is jointly owned, this paragraph applies only if
the total gain made by all owners of the investment
asset on realisation of the asset does not exceed Rs.
50,000and the total gains made by the resident
individual in the year of assessment do not exceed
Rs. 600,000;
212 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(g) a gain made by a resident individual on the realisation of
the individual’sprincipal place of residence, provided it
has been owned by the individual continuously for the
three years before being realised and lived in by the
individual for at least two of those three years (calculated
on a daily basis);
(h) gain made on realisation of an asset consisting of shares
quoted in any official list published by any stock exchange
licensed by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri
Lanka;
(i) the interest derived by a charitable institution, where it is
proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner-General
that such interest is applied solely for the purpose of
providing care to children, the elderly or the disabled in a
home maintained by such charitable institution;
(j) any prize received by a person as an award made by the
President of the Republic of Sri Lanka or by the Government
in recognition of an invention created, or any research
undertaken, by such person;
(k) any sum received by a person from the President’s Fund
established by the President’s Fund Act, No. 7 of 1978 or
National Defence Fund established by the National Defence
Fund Act, No. 9 of 1985;
(l) an amount equal to the interest or the discount paid or
allowed, as the case may be, to any non-resident person or
to any licensed commercial bank in Sri Lanka, by the issuer
of any sovereign bond denominated in foreign currency,
issued on or after October 21, 2008, by or on behalf of the
Government of Sri Lanka;
(m) any amount derived by a senior citizen from an annuity for
life for a period of not less than ten years purchased from a
bank or an insurance company registered under the
Regulation of Insurance Industry Act, No. 43 of 2000;
(n) any winning from a lottery, the gross amount of which
does not exceed Rs. 500,000;
(o) a dividend paid by a resident company to a member to the
extent that dividend payment is attributable to, or derived
from, another dividend received by that resident company
or another resident company that was subject to withholding
under section 84; and
(p) benefits received or derived by an employee of the
government of Sri Lanka from a road vehicle permit issued
to that employee;
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 213
(q) the profits and income from any property donated by royal
or other grant before March 2, 1815, to any place of public
worship administered by a charitable institution, in so far
as such profits and income are applied to the purposers for
which such grant was made;
(r) dividends from and gains on the realisation of shares in a
non-resident commpany where derived by a resident
company with respect to a substantial participation in the
non-resident company. In this paragraph, “substantial
participation” means—
(i) holding 10 percent or more of the value of shares
in the company, excluding redeemable shares;
together with
(ii) control, either directly or indirectly, of 10 percent
or more of the voting power in the company;
(s) any amount derived by a person from the sale of any gem
on which tax has been deducted under subsection (2) of
section 84.
214 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
FOURTH SCHEDULE
CAPITAL ALLOWANCES, BALANCING ALLOWANCES AND
ASSESSABLE CHARGES
Types and classification of depreciable assets.
1. (1) The types and classification of depreciable assets shall be
as follows:
Class Depreciable Assets
1 computers and data handling equipment together with
peripheral devices.
2 buses and minibuses, goods vehicles; construction and earth-
moving equipment, heavy general purpose or specialised
trucks, trailers and trailer-mounted containers; plant and
machinery used in manufacturing.
3 railroad cars, locomotives, and equipment; vessels, barges,
tugs, and similar water transportation equipment; aircraft;
specialised public utility plant, equipment, and machinery;
office furniture, fixtures, and equipment; any depreciable
asset not included in another class.
4 buildings, structures and similar works of a permanent nature.
5 intangible assets, excluding goodwill.
(2) Where a depreciable asset owned by a person is only partly
used in the production of income from a business at the end of a year
of assessment, the cost of and consideration received for the asset
shall be apportioned according to the market value of that part of the
asset that is used in the production of income from that business and
that part not.
Capital allowances.
2. (1) Subject to this paragraph, an allowance shall be granted to
a person for a year of assessment for each of the person’s depreciable
assets equal to the depreciation for the year of that asset and calculated
in accordance with subparagraph (2).
(2) Depreciation for a year of assessment for each depreciable
asset shall be calculated according to the straight line method using
the following formula:
