Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 43
shall be apportioned between the part of the asset realised
and the part retained according to their market values
immediately after the realisation.
CHAPTER V
TYPES OF PERSONS
Division I: Individuals and Entities
52. (1) In arriving at the taxable income of an individual Qualifying
payments and
or entity for a year of assessment under section 3, the
reliefs.
aggregate qualifying payments referred to in the Fifth
Schedule to this Act shall be deducted.
(2) In arriving at the taxable income of an individual who
is resident in Sri Lanka for a year of assessment under section
3, the aggregate reliefs referred to in the Fifth Schedule to
this Act shall be deducted.
(3) In arriving at the taxable income of an individual who
is not resident in Sri Lanka for a year of assessment but is a
citizen of Sri Lanka under section 3, the relief referred to in
paragraph 2(a) of the Fifth Schedule to this Act shall be
deducted.
Division II: Partnerships
53. (1) Subject to subsection (2), a partnership shall not Partnerships.
be liable to pay income tax with respect to its taxable income
and shall not be entitled to any tax credit with respect to that
income, but shall be liable to pay income tax with respect to
withholding payments.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply to a
partnership to the extent that the partnership’s taxable
income includes a gain from the realisation of an investment
asset.
44 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(3) Partnership income or a partnership loss of a
partnership shall be allocated to the partners in accordance
with this Division.
(4) Amounts derived and expenditure incurred in common
by partners shall be treated as amounts derived or expenditure
incurred by the partnership and not by the partners.
(5) Assets owned and liabilities owed in common by
partners shall be treated as assets owned or liabilities owed
by the partnership and not by the partners and shall be treated
as –
(a) in the case of assets, acquired when they begin to
owe such assets in that way;
(b) in the case of liabilities, incurred when they begin
to owe such liabilities in that way; and
(c) realised when they cease to be so owned or owed in
that way.
(6) Subject to this Act, all business activities of a
partnership shall be treated as conducted in the course of a
single partnership business.
(7) Subject to this Act, arrangements between a partnership
and its partners shall be recognised in instances other than
the following, which shall be taken into account in
determining a partner’s share under subsection (5) of section
55:-
(a) loans made by a partner to a partnership and any
interest paid with respect thereto; and
(b) services provided by a partner to a partnership
(including by way of employment) and any service
fee or income from employment payable with
respect thereto.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 45
(8) Subject to any consequences under section 63, where
there is a change of partners in a partnership at least two
existing partners continue with the partnership, the
partnership shall be treated as the same entity both before
and after the change.
(9) The precedent partner or in the absence of such partner
in Sri Lanka, an agent of the partnership in Sri Lanka, shall
withhold tax in accordance with section 84 and at the rate
provided for in paragraph 10 of the First Schedule to this
Act on each partner’s share of any partnership income of the
relevant partnership year, excluding the share of any
partnership income that includes a gain from the realisation
of an investment asset in respect of which tax is payable on
assessment by the partnership.
54. (1) Partnership income of a partnership for a year of Partnership
assessment shall be the partnership’s income from its business income or loss.
or investment for that year of assessment (sections 6 and 7).
(2) A loss incurred by a partnership for a year of assessment
shall be the partnership’s loss from its business or investment
for the year (subsection (5) of section 19).
55. (1) For the purposes of calculating a partner’s Taxation of
income from a partnership for a year of assessment of the partners.
partner, the partner’s share of any partnership income shall
be included or the partner’s share of any partnership loss of
the relevant partnership year shall be deducted. The relevant
partnership year is the year of assessment of the partnership
ending on the last day of or during the year of assessment of
the partner.
(2) Gains on disposal of an interest of a partner in a
partnership shall be treated as income from a business and
included in calculating the income of the partner from the
partnership and shall be calculated under Chapter IV subject
to the adjustments in section 56.
46 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(3) Partnership income or a partnership loss allocated to
partners under subsection (1) –
(a) shall retain its character as to type and source;
(b) shall be treated as an amount derived or expenditure
incurred, respectively, by a partner at the end of the
partnership’s year of assessment; and
(c) shall be allocated to the partners proportionately
to each partner’s share, unless the Commissioner-
General, by notice in writing and for good cause,
directs otherwise.
(4) Tax paid under the provisions of this Act and foreign
income tax paid or treated as paid by the partnership with
respect to the partnership income shall be allocated to the
partners, proportionately to each partner’s share, and shall
be treated as paid by them. The allocation occurs at the time
partnership income is treated as derived by the partners under
paragraph (b) of subsection 3.
(5) For the purposes of this section and subject to
subsection (7) of section 53, a “partner’s share” shall be
equal to the partner’s percentage interest in any income of
the partnership as set out in the partnership arrangement.
Cost of and 56. (1) The following shall be included in the cost of a
consideration partner’s membership interest in a partnership:-
received for
partnership
interest. (a) amounts included in calculating the partner’s
income, under subsection (1) of section 55 at the
time of the inclusion; and
(b) the partner’s share (subsection (5) of section 55) of
exempt amounts and final withholding payments
derived by the partnership, at the time the amount
or payment is derived.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 47
(2) The following shall be included in the consideration
received for a partner’s membership interest in a partnership:-
(a) amounts deducted in calculating the partner’s
income, under subsection (1) of section 55 at the
time of deduction;
(b) distributions made by the partnership to the partner,
at the time of distribution; and
(c) the partner’s share (subsection (5) of section 55) of
domestic or excluded expenditure incurred by the
partnership, at the time the expenditure is incurred.
Division III: Trusts and Unit Trusts
57. (1) Subject to subsection (2), a trust shall be liable Taxation of
to tax separately from its beneficiaries, and – trusts.
(a) a trust shall be taxed as an entity, except a trust of
an incapacitated individual (not being a minor),
which shall be taxed as though it were an individual;
and
(b) amounts derived and expenditure incurred by a trust
or a trustee (other than as a bare agent or for an
absolutely entitled beneficiary) shall be treated as
derived or incurred by the trust and not any other
person, regardless of whether or not the amount is
derived or incurred on behalf of another person and
whether or not any other person is entitled to such
an amount or income constituted by such an
amount.
(2) A beneficiary of a trust (instead of the trust) shall be
liable to tax on the income of the trust to which that
beneficiary is presently entitled for the relevant year of
48 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
assessment of the trust ending on the last day of or during
the year of assessment and –
(a) amounts derived and expenditure incurred by a trust
or a trustee shall be treated as derived or incurred
by the beneficiary and not the trust or trustee or any
other person;
(b) each amount shall retain its character as to type and
source;
(c) each amount shall be treated as an amount derived
or expenditure incurred, respectively, by the
beneficiary at the end of the year of assessment of
the trust;
(d) each amount shall be allocated to the beneficiaries
proportionately to each beneficiary’s share, unless
the Commissioner-General, by notice in writing and
for good cause, directs otherwise; and
(e) tax paid under this Act and foreign income tax paid
or treated as paid by the trust with respect to the
trust income shall be allocated to the beneficiaries
at the time trust income is treated as derived by the
beneficiaries under paragraph (c) proportionately
to each beneficiary’s share, and treated as paid by
them.
(3) For the purposes of subsection (2) –
(a) a beneficiary shall be presently entitled to
the income of a trust if the beneficiary has a
vested and indefeasible interest in the income
and an immediate right to demand payment
of the income from the trustee of the trust;
and
(b) provisions of subsection (2) shall not apply
to a trust to the extent that the trust’s taxable
income include a gain from the realisation of
an investment asset.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 49
(4) Assets owned and liabilities owed by a trust or a trustee
(other than as a bare agent or for an absolutely entitled
beneficiary) shall be treated as owned or owed by the trust
and not any other person.
(5) Separate calculations of income shall be made for
separate trusts regardless of whether they have the same
trustees.
(6) Subject to the provisions of this Act, arrangements
between a trust and its trustees or beneficiaries shall be
recognised.
58. (1) Distributions – Taxation of
beneficiaries.
(a) of a resident trust shall be exempt in the hands
of the trust’s beneficiaries; and
(b) of a non-resident trust shall be included in
calculating the income of the beneficiaries
of the trust, except to the extent that the
distribution represents an amount that is
subject to tax to the trust or trustee under
subsection (1) of section 57 or a beneficiary
under subsection (2) of section 57.
(2) Gains on disposal of the interest of a beneficiary in a
trust shall be included in calculating the income of the
beneficiary.
59. (1) For the purposes of this Act, every unit trust or Taxation of unit
every mutual fund that does not conduct an eligible trusts.
investment business shall be deemed to be a company
resident in Sri Lanka and the provisions of this Act relating
to companies resident in Sri Lanka shall apply.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions
of subsection (1) –
(a) a “unit” in any unit trust or a mutual fund shall be
deemed to be a share in that company;
50 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(b) a unit holder in any unit trust or mutual fund shall
be deemed to be a shareholder in that company;
(c) the income derived by or which arose from or
accrued to the benefit of, the trustee of any unit
trust or the custodian of any mutual fund from any
property subject to that unit trust or mutual fund or
from any business carried on by such trustee or such
custodian for or on behalf of, that unit trust or
mutual fund shall be deemed to be the income of
that company;
(d) any distribution, in any manner whatsoever, of the
income of any unit trust or mutual fund to its unit
holders shall be deemed to be a dividend
distributed to the shareholders of that company;
and
(e) the paid up value of any unit in any unit trust or
mutual fund shall be deemed to be the paid up value
of any share in that company.
(3) Any sum appropriated or paid by way of remuneration
to the manager or the trustee of any unit trust or to the manager
or custodian of any mutual fund out of the funds of that unit
trust or mutual fund shall, for the purposes of section 11 be
deemed to be an expense incurred by that company in the
production of its income.
(4) Where this section applies, section 57 shall not apply.
Division IV: Companies
Taxation of 60. (1) A company shall be liable to tax separately from
companies. its shareholders.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, all business
activities of a company shall be treated as conducted in the
course of a single company business.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 51
(3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, arrangements
between a company and its managers or shareholders shall
be recognised.
61. (1) Dividends – Taxation of
shareholders.
(a) distributed by a resident company shall be
taxed on the company’s shareholders; and
(b) distributed by a non-resident company shall
be included in calculating the income of the
shareholders.
(2) Gains on disposal of shares in a company shall be
included in calculating the income of the shareholder.
62. (1) A non-resident person who carries on business Remittance tax.
in Sri Lanka through a Sri Lankan permanent establishment
shall pay tax on the remitted profits earned within the year
of assessment.
(2) A non-resident person who has earned remitted profits
under subsection (1) shall pay a final tax on the gross amount
of the remitted profits to the Commissioner-General in
accordance with the rate set out in the First Schedule to this
Act on or before the thirtieth day succeeding the date of
making such remittances.
(3) In this section, “remitted profits” means amounts
remitted or retained abroad out of the profits and income of
the non-resident person that are subject to income tax in Sri
Lanka, and any amount received outside Sri Lanka by or on
behalf of the non-resident person from conducting business
in Sri Lanka that is subject to income tax in Sri Lanka,
excluding dividends paid by a resident company to the non-
resident person.
52 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
Division V: Entities
Asset dealings 63. Subject to section 46, where an asset is realised by
between entities way of transfer of ownership of the asset by an entity to one
and members.
of its members or vice versa –
(a) the transferor shall be treated as deriving an amount
in respect of the realisation equal to the market
value of the asset immediately before the realisation;
and
(b) the transferee shall be treated as incurring
expenditure of the amount referred to in paragraph
(a) in the acquisition.
Change in 64. (1) When the underlying ownership of an entity
control. changes by more than fifty percent as compared with that
ownership at any time during the previous three years, the
entity, after the change, shall not be permitted to –
(a) deduct financial costs carried forward under
subsection (3) of section 18 that were incurred by
the entity prior to the change;
(b) deduct a loss under subsection (1) of section 19
that was incurred by the entity prior to the change;
(c) in a case where the entity has, prior to the change,
included an amount in calculating income in terms
of subsections (2), (4) or (5) of section 24, claim a
deduction under those provisions after the change;
or
(d) carry back a loss under subsection (5) of section 25
that was incurred after the change to a year of
assessment before the change.
(2) Where a change in ownership of the type referred to in
subsection (1) occurs during a year of assessment of an entity,
the parts of the year of assessment before and after the change
shall be treated as separate years of assessment.
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 53
(3) This section shall not apply to a partnership or
company that conducts the same business after a change as
it conducted before the change for a period of two years after
the change.
CHAPTER VI
SPECIAL INDUSTRIES
Division I: Petroleum Operations
65. (1) Any individual or entity who or which has Petroleum
entered into an agreement as a contractor or sub-contractor operations.
under the Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 2003 shall be
deemed to be resident in Sri Lanka over the term of such
contract or sub contract, as the case may be, for the purposes
of this Act.
(2) The turnover from exports and local sales of petroleum
exploited under any Petroleum Resources Agreement
referred to in subsection (1), shall be determined on the basis
of accepted commercial practices and be subject to any
specific provisions in the Petroleum Resources Agreements,
entered into under the Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of
2003.
(3) The income, gains and profits from the business of
petroleum exploitation under any Petroleum Resources
Agreement referred to in subsection (1), shall be ascertained
after allowing the following deductions in addition to other
allowable deductions under the provisions of this Act, and
shall notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
provision of this Act, be chargeable with income tax at the
appropriate rate set out in the First Schedule to this Act,
provided that the same item of expenditure shall not be
deducted more than once:-
(a) payments made to service sub-contractors for
conducting petroleum operations;
