foreign exchange act, no. 12 of 2017 19 (b) the magistrate shall thereupon summon such person before him to show cause why further proceedings for the recovery of sum due under this act should not been taken against him and in default of sufficient cause being shown, such sum shall be deemed to be a fine imposed by a sentence of the magistrate on such person and the provisions of section 291 (except paragraphs (a), (d) and (i) of subsection (1) thereof of the code of criminal procedure act, no. 15 of 1979), relating to the default of payment of a fine imposed for such an offence shall thereupon apply and magistrate may make any direction, by the provisions of that subsection, he could have made at the time of imposing such sentence. (3) (a) the correctness of any statement in a certificate issued by the central bank for the purpose of this section shall not be called in question or examined by the court in any proceedings under this section and accordingly nothing in this section shall authorize the court to consider or decide the correctness of any statement in such certificate and the central bank’s certificate shall be sufficient evidence that the amount due under this act from the defaulting person has been duly calculated and that such amount is in default. (b) the certificate shall be signed by the governor of the central bank and shall be admissible in evidence in such action, without proof of signature and shall be prima facie proof of the matters stated therein. (4) any sum recovered in an action under this section shall be paid into the consolidated fund. 16. subject to the provisions of this act, any provisions permission, consent or authority granted under this act may relating to permission, be – consent or authority. (a) general or special; (b) absolute or conditional; 20 foreign exchange act, no. 12 of 2017 (c) limited so as to expire on a specified date, unless renewed; and (d) varied or revoked. burden of proof 17. in any inquiry under section 13, the burden of of permission. proving that any authorized dealer, restricted dealer or any other person, class or classes of persons not being an authorized dealer or restricted dealer had obtained the permission of the central bank for doing the act or making the omission which constitutes the violation of the provisions of the act or any regulation, order, guideline or direction issued or made thereunder shall be on such dealer, person or class or classes of persons. presumption 18. in any inquiry under section 13 in relation to foreign relating to currency, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, foreign that the currency in respect of which the dealing in foreign currency. exchange in violation of the provisions of the act or any regulation, order, guideline or direction issued or made thereunder is alleged to have been committed is genuine. admissibility of 19. in an inquiry under section 13 or any proceeding certain under section 10, any of the following documents may be documents. produced before the board of inquiry or court and given in evidence against any authorised dealer, restricted dealer or any other person, class or classes of persons not being an authorized dealer or restricted dealer and shall be prima facie evidence of the matters, transactions and accounts therein contained – (a) a certified copy of a banker’s book or an extract thereof obtained from the manager or principal accountant of the bank; (b) a certified copy of any book or other record required by law to be maintained by a company or a certified copy of any extract thereof, obtained from a director or secretary of the company; and