Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 19
(b) The Magistrate shall thereupon summon such person
before him to show cause why further proceedings for the
recovery of sum due under this Act should not been taken
against him and in default of sufficient cause being shown,
such sum shall be deemed to be a fine imposed by a sentence
of the Magistrate on such person and the provisions of section
291 (except paragraphs (a), (d) and (i) of subsection (1)
thereof of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of
1979), relating to the default of payment of a fine imposed
for such an offence shall thereupon apply and Magistrate
may make any direction, by the provisions of that subsection,
he could have made at the time of imposing such sentence.
(3) (a) The correctness of any statement in a certificate
issued by the Central Bank for the purpose of this section
shall not be called in question or examined by the court in
any proceedings under this section and accordingly nothing
in this section shall authorize the court to consider or decide
the correctness of any statement in such certificate and the
Central Bank’s certificate shall be sufficient evidence that
the amount due under this Act from the defaulting person
has been duly calculated and that such amount is in default.
(b) The certificate shall be signed by the Governor of the
Central Bank and shall be admissible in evidence in such
action, without proof of signature and shall be prima facie
proof of the matters stated therein.
(4) Any sum recovered in an action under this section
shall be paid into the Consolidated Fund.
16. Subject to the provisions of this Act, any Provisions
permission, consent or authority granted under this Act may relating to
permission,
be –
consent or
authority.
(a) general or special;
(b) absolute or conditional;
20 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
(c) limited so as to expire on a specified date, unless
renewed; and
(d) varied or revoked.
Burden of proof 17. In any inquiry under section 13, the burden of
of permission. proving that any authorized dealer, restricted dealer or any
other person, class or classes of persons not being an
authorized dealer or restricted dealer had obtained the
permission of the Central Bank for doing the act or making
the omission which constitutes the violation of the provisions
of the Act or any regulation, Order, guideline or direction
issued or made thereunder shall be on such dealer, person or
class or classes of persons.
Presumption 18. In any inquiry under section 13 in relation to foreign
relating to currency, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved,
foreign
that the currency in respect of which the dealing in foreign
currency.
exchange in violation of the provisions of the Act or any
regulation, Order, guideline or direction issued or made
thereunder is alleged to have been committed is genuine.
Admissibility of 19. In an Inquiry under section 13 or any proceeding
certain under section 10, any of the following documents may be
documents.
produced before the Board of Inquiry or Court and given in
evidence against any authorised dealer, restricted dealer or
any other person, class or classes of persons not being an
authorized dealer or restricted dealer and shall be prima facie
evidence of the matters, transactions and accounts therein
contained –
(a) a certified copy of a banker’s book or an extract
thereof obtained from the manager or principal
accountant of the bank;
(b) a certified copy of any book or other record
required by law to be maintained by a company or
a certified copy of any extract thereof, obtained
from a director or secretary of the company; and
