2 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
Authorized 4. (1) (a) Every licensed commercial bank shall,
dealers and immediately upon such bank being issued a license to carry
restricted
on banking business under the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988,
dealers.
be authorized by the Central Bank to act, subject to the
provisions of section 9 as an authorized dealer to deal in
foreign exchange.
(b) Every licensed commercial bank which is on the
appointed date carrying on banking business, shall subject
to the provisions of section 9, be deemed to have been
authorized by the Central Bank, to act as an authorized dealer
to deal in foreign exchange.
(c) Every licensed specialised bank, immediately upon
such bank being issued a license to carry on banking business
under the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988, may be authorized
by the Central Bank subject to the provisions of section 9,
to deal in foreign exchange for the purposes specified in
such authorization.
(d) Every licensed specialised bank which is on the
appointed date carrying on banking business, shall subject
to the provisions of section 9, be deemed to have been
authorized by the Central Bank to deal in foreign exchange
for the purposes specified in such authorization.
(2) (a) The Central Bank may permit, subject to the
provisions of section 9, any person, class or classes of persons
(hereinafter referred to as a “restricted dealer”) not being an
authorized dealer, to deal in foreign exchange within Sri
Lanka for the purposes specified in the permit, subject to
such terms and conditions as may be imposed by the Central
Bank in that behalf.
(b) Every dealer in foreign exchange including money
changers or any other person other than licensed commercial
banks or specialised banks, which are on the appointed date
permitted to deal in foreign exchange, shall subject to the
provisions of section 9, be deemed to have been permitted
Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 3
by the Central Bank, to act as a restricted dealer to deal in
foreign exchange for the purposes specified in such
authorization.
(c) The Central Bank may, subject to the provisions of
section 9, grant special permission, to any person not being
an authorized dealer or restricted dealer, to deal in foreign
exchange within Sri Lanka for specific purposes as may be
prescribed by the Minister by an Order published in the
Gazette subject to such terms and conditions as may be
specified in such Order.
(3) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, no person in
or resident in Sri Lanka shall deal in foreign exchange within
or outside Sri Lanka, by any act which involves the
conversion of Sri Lanka Rupees or assets within Sri Lanka
to foreign exchange, otherwise than through an authorized
dealer, or to the extent specified in the permit, through a
restricted dealer.
5. Any person in, or resident in, Sri Lanka who – Foreign
exchange or
foreign assets
(a) holds foreign exchange in a bank account in Sri held or owned
Lanka or outside Sri Lanka; or by a person in
or resident in Sri
Lanka.
(b) owns any foreign asset,
may utilize such foreign exchange or foreign asset for making
of any payment for, or in respect of, any current or capital
transaction of such person, within or outside Sri Lanka. Any
such payment made from foreign exchange held by such
person within Sri Lanka shall be made through an authorized
dealer, or to the extent specified in the permit, through a
restricted dealer.
