Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 17
(b) The Minister may with the reasons assigned therefor
remove any appointed member.
(c) In the event of any post of an appointed member of the
Board of Inquiry being vacated by death, resignation,
removal or the operation of the provisions of subsection (5),
the Minister may appoint another person, having regard to
the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) to hold such office
for the unexpired period of term of office of the member
whom he succeeds.
(d) If any appointed member of the Board of Inquiry is
temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office during
any period due to ill-health or absence from Sri Lanka or for
any other cause, the Minister may appoint some other person
to act in his place for unexpired period.
(7) The Board of Inquiry shall within thirty days of the
receipt of the appeal make its determination in respect of
such matter.
(8) Every Appellant shall appear before the Board of
Inquiry in person or with an authorized representative.
(9) After the hearing of an appeal, the Board of Inquiry
may confirm, vary or reverse the decision appealed against.
(10) The decision of the Board of Inquiry and the reasons
therefor shall be in writing, be notified to the appellant and
the Board of Inquiry shall forward a report thereon to the
Minister.
14. Where any person who is required to pay any sum Liability of
of money or penalty to the Central Bank under section 11 or bodies corporate
or
13 is a body corporate or unincorporated, every director,
unincorporated.
member or partner of such body shall also be personally
liable jointly and severally to pay such amount or value and
expenses:
Provided that, such director, member or partner shall not
be liable to pay such amount or value if such person proves
18 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
that the act or omission incurring such liability was done or
omitted to have been done without the knowledge of such
person or that such person exercised due diligence to prevent
such act or omission.
Recovery of 15. (1) (a) Where any person fails to pay any sum of
sums due to money or penalty to the Central Bank under sections 11 or
Government.
13, the Governor of the Central Bank shall cause a certificate
to be issued under his hand, setting out the sum of money
required to be paid by such person.
(b) The sum of money so certified shall be deemed to be a
debt due from such person to the Government and may be
recovered by the Central Bank by issuing a certificate to the
District Court having jurisdiction in the district where the
person resides.
(c) Such certificate shall contain the particulars of the
sum due and the name and place of residence as given in the
authorization issued under section 4.
(d) Court shall thereupon direct a writ of execution to be
issued to the Fiscal authorizing and requiring him to seize
and sell all the property movable and immovable of the
defaulting person or such part thereof as the Court may deem
necessary for recovery of the amount so due and the
provisions of sections 226 to 297 of the Civil Procedure
Code (Chapter 101) shall, mutatis mutandis apply to and in
relation to such seizure and sale.
(2) (a) Where the Central Bank is of the opinion that it is
impracticable or inexpedient to recover the sum required to
be paid under subsection (1) or where the full amount has
not been recovered by the seizure and sale, then, the Central
Bank may issue a certificate containing particulars of the
sum so due and the name of the person and place of residence
as given in the authorization issued under section 4 to the
Magistrate having jurisdiction
Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 19
(b) The Magistrate shall thereupon summon such person
before him to show cause why further proceedings for the
recovery of sum due under this Act should not been taken
against him and in default of sufficient cause being shown,
such sum shall be deemed to be a fine imposed by a sentence
of the Magistrate on such person and the provisions of section
291 (except paragraphs (a), (d) and (i) of subsection (1)
thereof of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of
1979), relating to the default of payment of a fine imposed
for such an offence shall thereupon apply and Magistrate
may make any direction, by the provisions of that subsection,
he could have made at the time of imposing such sentence.
(3) (a) The correctness of any statement in a certificate
issued by the Central Bank for the purpose of this section
shall not be called in question or examined by the court in
any proceedings under this section and accordingly nothing
in this section shall authorize the court to consider or decide
the correctness of any statement in such certificate and the
Central Bank’s certificate shall be sufficient evidence that
the amount due under this Act from the defaulting person
has been duly calculated and that such amount is in default.
(b) The certificate shall be signed by the Governor of the
Central Bank and shall be admissible in evidence in such
action, without proof of signature and shall be prima facie
proof of the matters stated therein.
(4) Any sum recovered in an action under this section
shall be paid into the Consolidated Fund.
16. Subject to the provisions of this Act, any Provisions
permission, consent or authority granted under this Act may relating to
permission,
be –
consent or
authority.
(a) general or special;
(b) absolute or conditional;
