Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 5
and the Central Bank shall, after giving such person and the
dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard, affirm, vary
or revoke such decision.
7. (1) The Minister shall in consultation with the Capital
Monetary Board and with the approval of the Cabinet of transaction.
Ministers, authorize by regulations, the class or classes of
capital transactions in foreign exchange for the purpose of
this section.
(2) In making regulations under subsection (1), the
Minister shall have regard to –
(a) transactions required to be regulated in conformity
with any treaty or agreement relating to international
financial transactions to which the Government of
Sri Lanka is a signatory;
(b) the impact of such authorization on the monetary
policy of Sri Lanka and its stabilization.
(3) The regulations published under subsection (1) may
specify the limit up to which capital transactions may be
authorized and the terms and conditions subject to which
foreign exchange may be dealt with for the class or classes
of capital transactions, so authorized.
(4) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 5, a
person shall be entitled to deal in foreign exchange in respect
of a capital transaction of such person, through an authorized
dealer or to the extent specified in the permit, through a
restricted dealer, being capital transactions of a class or
classes, which is or are authorized by regulations made under
subsection (1).
(5) An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer may deal
in foreign exchange for a capital transaction as a principle
or an intermediary, being a transaction authorized by
regulations made under subsection (1).
6 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
(6) Prior to dealing in foreign exchange in respect of a
capital transaction under this section, the authorized dealer
or the restricted dealer shall request the person requiring
foreign exchange for such transaction, to provide such
information or produce such documents or make such
declaration as is reasonably necessary in order to satisfy
himself that the requirement is in relation to a capital
transaction authorized under subsection (1) and is in
conformity with any other laws regulating such transactions.
(7) An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer shall refuse
to deal in foreign exchange for a capital transaction under
this section where a request for information, documents or a
declaration is not complied with or where the dealer is
satisfied that the requirement is not for a capital transaction
authorized under subsection (1) or is not in conformity with
other laws regulating such transaction.
(8) An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer refusing to
deal in foreign exchange in respect of a capital transaction
under this section shall communicate his decision in writing
together with the reasons therefor, if requested by the person
requiring the foreign exchange subject to the provisions of
section 9 of the Financial Transactions Reporting Act, No. 6
of 2006.
(9) Any person aggrieved by the decision of an authorized
dealer or a restricted dealer under subsection (7), may within
fourteen days after such decision is communicated to such
person, appeal against such decision to the Central Bank,
and the Central Bank shall, after giving such person and the
dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard, affirm, vary
or revoke such decision.
(10) An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer shall not
deal in foreign exchange for a capital transaction that is not
authorized by regulations made under subsection (1) unless
the Monetary Board taking into consideration the existence
of any exceptional circumstances has granted approval for
Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 7
such capital transaction in accordance with such directions
as may be issued by the Minister in conformity with the
approvals made under subsection (1).
8. (1) A person in, or resident in, Sri Lanka shall– Regulation of
certain
(a) export from Sri Lanka or import into Sri Lanka, transactions.
any foreign currency or Sri Lanka currency;
(b) hold foreign exchange in his possession or in a
bank account in Sri Lanka,
only for such purpose, up to such limits and subject to such
terms and conditions, as may be prescribed by the Minister
by an Order published in the Gazette.
(2) A person in, or resident in, Sri Lanka shall acquire a
foreign asset from foreign exchange derived from the
conversion of Sri Lanka currency or the disposal or
conversion of an asset within Sri Lanka or provision of any
service in or from Sri Lanka only for such purposes, up to
such limits and subject to such terms and conditions as may
be prescribed by the Minister by regulations made in that
behalf.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
provisions of any other written law, any Sri Lankan citizen
resident in Sri Lanka who remits to Sri Lanka any foreign
exchange which have not been declared to the Commissioner
General of Inland Revenue or the Head of the Department of
Foreign Exchange before the appointed date and which are
not the property in respect of which proceedings are pending
in a court of law or an order has been made by a court of law
under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of
2006, Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist Financing
Act, No. 25 of 2005 or the Bribery Act (Chapter 26) shall be
liable to pay only a remittance fee of one per centum to the
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue and shall not be
subject to the payment of any other fee, tax, surcharge, levy
or penalty:
8 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
Provided that any such person who remits to Sri Lanka
foreign exchange not exceeding the value of one million
United States dollars held outside Sri Lanka shall not be
liable to pay the remittance fee or any other tax, surcharge,
levy or penalty and any amount remitted exceeding such
value shall be liable to pay the remittance fee specified in
subsection (3):
Provided further that any such person who remits to
Sri Lanka an amount of foreign exchange exceeding the
value of one million United States dollars held outside
Sri Lanka and invests in a development bond issued by the
Government of Sri Lanka shall not be liable to pay the
remittance fee or any other tax, surcharge, levy or penalty.
(4) Foreign Exchange held outside Sri Lanka and remitted
to Sri Lanka after the appointed date under subsection (3)
may be held in a foreign currency account or may be
converted into Sri Lanka rupees.
(5) The property referred to in subsection (3) shall not be
deemed to be the property obtained by the commission of
an offence under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,
No. 5 of 2006 even if such foreign exchange had been held
outside Sri Lanka without the permission of the Central
Bank.
(6) There shall be no restriction on the repatriation of
funds out of Sri Lanka remitted to Sri Lanka by any person
in terms of subsection (3) of section 8.
Guidelines and 9. (1) The Central Bank may from time to time, subject
directions. to informing the Minister issue guidelines and directions to
authorized dealers and restricted dealers engaging in current
transactions.
(2) The Central Bank may from time to time subject to
the approval of the Minister issue guidelines and directions
to authorized dealers and restricted dealers engaging in
capital transactions.
