Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 23
(2) Expenses incurred by the employees of the Central
Bank in any suit or prosecution brought against such person
before any court or tribunal in respect of any act which is
done or purported to be done by such person under this Act
or any other written law or on the direction of Central Bank
shall, if that act was done in good faith, be paid out of the
Consolidated Fund, unless such expenses are recoverable
by such person in any suit or proceedings.
24. (1) It shall be an implied condition in any contract, Contracts.
entered into, by virtue of the provisions of this Act, the
permission or consent of the Central Bank is at the time of
the contract required for the performance of any term thereof,
that terms should not be performed except insofar as the
permission or consent is given or permission or consent is
not required:
Provided that, the preceding provisions of this subsection
shall not apply to that term insofar as the application of
those provisions to that term is inconsistent with the intention
of the parties to that contract, whether by reason of their
having contemplated the performance of that term despite
the provisions of this Act, or for any other reason.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in the Bills of Exchange
Ordinance (Chapter 82), neither the provisions of this Act,
nor any condition, whether express or implied having regard
to those provisions, that any payment shall not be made
without the permission of the Central Bank under this Act,
shall be deemed to prevent any instrument being a bill of
exchange or promissory note under the said Ordinance.
25. Where the provisions of any other written law impose Obligations
an obligation in respect of the doing of any act and the under other
written laws.
permission or consent of the Central Bank is, by virtue of
that Act is required for the discharge of the obligation, it
shall be an implied condition of the obligation that it shall
not be discharged except in so far as the permission or consent
is given or is not required.
24 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
Penalties. 26. (1) Any person who acts in contravention of the
provisions of this Act or any regulation Order or direction
issued or made thereunder for which no penalty is prescribed,
may be required in writing by the Central Bank to pay as a
penalty a sum not exceeding one million rupees, within such
period as may be specified in the notification of such
requirement.
(2) Any person aggrieved by a penalty imposed under
subsection (1) may, within thirty days after the requirement
to pay such penalty is communicated to such person, appeal
against such requirement to pay such penalty to the Board
of Inquiry which shall determine such appeal in accordance
with the procedure set out in section 13.
Amendment of 27. The Schedule to this Act may from time to time in
Schedules by the interest of the national economy be amended, altered or
Resolution of
varied by Resolution of Parliament.
Parliament.
Publication of 28. Where any regulation or Order made under this Act
Orders in daily is required to be published in the Gazette, it shall be published
newspapers.
once in three daily newspapers in the Sinhala, Tamil and
English languages.
Regulations. 29. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed or
in respect of which regulations are required or authorized to
be made under this Act.
(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of publication or on such later date as may be
specified therein.
(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall,
within three months from the date of its publication in the
Gazette be placed before Parliament for approval. Every
regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be
rescinded as from the date of disapproval, but without
prejudice to anything previously done there under.
