4 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
Current 6. (1) A person shall be entitled to deal in foreign
transaction. exchange for a current transaction of such person, through
an authorized dealer or to the extent specified in the permit,
through a restricted dealer.
(2) An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer may deal
in foreign exchange for a current transaction as a principal
or as an intermediary.
(3) Prior to dealing in foreign currency for a current
transaction under subsection (1), an authorized dealer or a
restricted dealer shall request the person requiring foreign
exchange for such transaction to provide such information
or produce such documents or make such declaration as is
reasonably necessary, in order to satisfy himself that the
requirement is in relation to a current transaction and is in
conformity with any other laws regulating such transactions.
(4) An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer shall refuse
to deal in foreign exchange for a current transaction under
subsection (1) where the request for information, documents
or declaration in terms of subsection (3) relating to such
transaction is not complied with or where the dealer is
satisfied that the requirement is not for a current transaction
or is not in conformity with any other laws regulating such
transactions.
(5) An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer refusing to
deal in foreign exchange for a current transaction under
subsection (4) shall communicate his decision in writing
together with the reasons therefor, if requested by the person
requiring the foreign exchange subject to the provisions of
section 9 of the Financial Transactions Reporting Act, No. 6
of 2006.
(6) Any person aggrieved by the decision of an authorized
dealer or a restricted dealer under subsection (4) may, within
fourteen days after such decision is communicated to such
person, appeal against such decision to the Central Bank
Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 5
and the Central Bank shall, after giving such person and the
dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard, affirm, vary
or revoke such decision.
7. (1) The Minister shall in consultation with the Capital
Monetary Board and with the approval of the Cabinet of transaction.
Ministers, authorize by regulations, the class or classes of
capital transactions in foreign exchange for the purpose of
this section.
(2) In making regulations under subsection (1), the
Minister shall have regard to –
(a) transactions required to be regulated in conformity
with any treaty or agreement relating to international
financial transactions to which the Government of
Sri Lanka is a signatory;
(b) the impact of such authorization on the monetary
policy of Sri Lanka and its stabilization.
(3) The regulations published under subsection (1) may
specify the limit up to which capital transactions may be
authorized and the terms and conditions subject to which
foreign exchange may be dealt with for the class or classes
of capital transactions, so authorized.
(4) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 5, a
person shall be entitled to deal in foreign exchange in respect
of a capital transaction of such person, through an authorized
dealer or to the extent specified in the permit, through a
restricted dealer, being capital transactions of a class or
classes, which is or are authorized by regulations made under
subsection (1).
(5) An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer may deal
in foreign exchange for a capital transaction as a principle
or an intermediary, being a transaction authorized by
regulations made under subsection (1).
