Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 11
Central Bank may, on application made to a Magistrate’s
Court by a person authorized in that behalf by the Monetary
Board, within whose jurisdiction such investigation is made,
obtain an Order directing the authorized dealer or the
restricted dealer or other person as the case may be whose
foreign exchange transaction or foreign assets is or are
being, or is or are to be, investigated, to appear before the
authorized person or to produce such books or documents
in the custody or control of such dealer or person as the
Central Bank or the authorized person making the
investigation may reasonably require for such investigation.
(7) An application made under subsection (6) by a person
authorized in that behalf by the Monetary Board shall
contain—
(a) the name and address of the authorized dealer or a
restricted dealer or other person as the case may be
whose foreign exchange transaction is being or is
to be investigated;
(b) the address of the premises in which the
investigation is to be made;
(c) the name of the authorized person making the
investigation; and
(d) a prayer for an Order -
(i) for the appearance of such dealer or person
before the authorized person;
(ii) for the production of the books and
documents to the Central Bank or the
authorized person;
(iii) to refrain from obstructing the authorized
person making an investigation under this
section.
12 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
(8) (a) Court may, after considering an application made
under subsections (6) and (7) make an Order prayed for under
paragraph (d) of subsection (7) and such dealer or person
shall comply with the Order forthwith.
(b) Any dealer or person who fails to comply with an
Order of the court under paragraph (a) commits an offence
and shall, on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding
rupees five hundred thousand.
(c) Where the offence under paragraph (b) is a continuing
offence, such dealer or person shall be liable to an additional
fine of rupees hundred thousand for each day during which
such offence continued.
Failure to 11. (1) Where the Central Bank is satisfied that an
comply with a authorized dealer or restricted dealer–
provision of the
Act or any
(a) deals in foreign exchange in any current transaction
Regulation,
Order, or capital transaction contrary to the provisions of
Direction, this Act;
Guideline & etc.
made or issued (b) deals in foreign exchange in relation to foreign
thereunder.
assets contrary to the provisions of this Act;
(c) fails to comply with any guideline or direction
issued under subsections (1), (2) and (3) of section
9 or any requirement under subsection (4) of
section9; or
(d) violates any provision of this Act or any regulation
or Order made thereunder,
the Central Bank may, upon the Minister being informed,
issue a notice directing any such authorized dealer or
restricted dealer to comply with the provisions of this Act or
any regulation, Order, guideline or direction issued or made
thereunder, within the period specified therein.
(2) Where any authorized dealer or restricted dealer fails
to act in accordance with the notice issued under subsection
