Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 3
by the Central Bank, to act as a restricted dealer to deal in
foreign exchange for the purposes specified in such
authorization.
(c) The Central Bank may, subject to the provisions of
section 9, grant special permission, to any person not being
an authorized dealer or restricted dealer, to deal in foreign
exchange within Sri Lanka for specific purposes as may be
prescribed by the Minister by an Order published in the
Gazette subject to such terms and conditions as may be
specified in such Order.
(3) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, no person in
or resident in Sri Lanka shall deal in foreign exchange within
or outside Sri Lanka, by any act which involves the
conversion of Sri Lanka Rupees or assets within Sri Lanka
to foreign exchange, otherwise than through an authorized
dealer, or to the extent specified in the permit, through a
restricted dealer.
5. Any person in, or resident in, Sri Lanka who – Foreign
exchange or
foreign assets
(a) holds foreign exchange in a bank account in Sri held or owned
Lanka or outside Sri Lanka; or by a person in
or resident in Sri
Lanka.
(b) owns any foreign asset,
may utilize such foreign exchange or foreign asset for making
of any payment for, or in respect of, any current or capital
transaction of such person, within or outside Sri Lanka. Any
such payment made from foreign exchange held by such
person within Sri Lanka shall be made through an authorized
dealer, or to the extent specified in the permit, through a
restricted dealer.
4 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
Current 6. (1) A person shall be entitled to deal in foreign
transaction. exchange for a current transaction of such person, through
an authorized dealer or to the extent specified in the permit,
through a restricted dealer.
(2) An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer may deal
in foreign exchange for a current transaction as a principal
or as an intermediary.
(3) Prior to dealing in foreign currency for a current
transaction under subsection (1), an authorized dealer or a
restricted dealer shall request the person requiring foreign
exchange for such transaction to provide such information
or produce such documents or make such declaration as is
reasonably necessary, in order to satisfy himself that the
requirement is in relation to a current transaction and is in
conformity with any other laws regulating such transactions.
(4) An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer shall refuse
to deal in foreign exchange for a current transaction under
subsection (1) where the request for information, documents
or declaration in terms of subsection (3) relating to such
transaction is not complied with or where the dealer is
satisfied that the requirement is not for a current transaction
or is not in conformity with any other laws regulating such
transactions.
(5) An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer refusing to
deal in foreign exchange for a current transaction under
subsection (4) shall communicate his decision in writing
together with the reasons therefor, if requested by the person
requiring the foreign exchange subject to the provisions of
section 9 of the Financial Transactions Reporting Act, No. 6
of 2006.
(6) Any person aggrieved by the decision of an authorized
dealer or a restricted dealer under subsection (4) may, within
fourteen days after such decision is communicated to such
person, appeal against such decision to the Central Bank
