Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 9
(3) The Central Bank may from time to time subject to
the approval of the Minister issue guidelines and directions
to authorized dealers and restricted dealers engaging in
transactions other than those referred to in subsections (1)
and (2) relating to foreign exchange.
(4) The Central Bank may from time to time subject to
the approval of the Minister issue guidelines and directions
to any person, class or classes of persons not being an
authorized dealer or restricted dealer, permitted to deal in
foreign exchange within Sri Lanka under paragraph (c) of
subsection (2) of section 4.
(5) The Central Bank may for statistical and monitoring
purposes, request an authorized dealer or a restricted dealer
to furnish within such time as may be specified in such request,
such information or returns in such form and manner in
relation to any foreign exchange transaction engaged in by
such dealer for a period of six years immediately prior to the
date on which such request is communicated to such dealer.
10. (1) The Central Bank may, at any time, cause an Investigations of
investigation to be made, of foreign exchange transactions foreign
exchange
or foreign assets of any authorized dealer or a restricted dealer
transactions and
or any other person, class or classes of persons as the case
foreign assets.
may be, by an officer of the Department of Foreign Exchange
authorized in writing by the Central Bank (hereinafter
referred to as an “authorized person”) in that behalf.
(2) It shall be the duty of every authorized dealer or a
restricted dealer or any other person, class or classes of
persons –
(a) to permit an authorized person entry into any
premises for the purposes of such investigation;
(b) to produce any books or other documents as may
be required for the investigation by such authorized
person;
10 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
(c) to permit such authorized person to retain for such
time as may be necessary such books and other
documents or to take copies or extracts;
(d) to appear before the authorized person when
required to do so by such authorized person;
(e) to furnish such statement or information in relation
to the investigation within such time and in such
manner as the said authorized person may require;
or
(f) not to furnish information under this section, which
to the knowledge of such dealer is false.
(3) Where an authorized person retains any book or
document under subsection (2) the authorized person shall
furnish to the person from whose custody or control such
book or document was taken for detention, a copy of such
book or document certified by such authorized person if a
request for a copy is made by the person from whose custody
or control such book or document was taken or the
authorized person may without retaining original books or
documents require the person to furnish true copies of such
books or documents.
(4) An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer or other
person required to appear before the authorized person may
be examined orally and any statement made by such dealer
or person shall be reduced to writing and shall be signed by
the dealer or person making the same.
(5) For purposes of an investigation under subsection
(1), the Central Bank or the authorized person may if the
circumstances warrant, obtain the assistance of a police
officer to prevent a breach of the peace, in the exercise of
that right.
(6) Where the Central Bank apprehends any resistance
in the course of an investigation under subsection (1), the
