20 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
(c) limited so as to expire on a specified date, unless
renewed; and
(d) varied or revoked.
Burden of proof 17. In any inquiry under section 13, the burden of
of permission. proving that any authorized dealer, restricted dealer or any
other person, class or classes of persons not being an
authorized dealer or restricted dealer had obtained the
permission of the Central Bank for doing the act or making
the omission which constitutes the violation of the provisions
of the Act or any regulation, Order, guideline or direction
issued or made thereunder shall be on such dealer, person or
class or classes of persons.
Presumption 18. In any inquiry under section 13 in relation to foreign
relating to currency, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved,
foreign
that the currency in respect of which the dealing in foreign
currency.
exchange in violation of the provisions of the Act or any
regulation, Order, guideline or direction issued or made
thereunder is alleged to have been committed is genuine.
Admissibility of 19. In an Inquiry under section 13 or any proceeding
certain under section 10, any of the following documents may be
documents.
produced before the Board of Inquiry or Court and given in
evidence against any authorised dealer, restricted dealer or
any other person, class or classes of persons not being an
authorized dealer or restricted dealer and shall be prima facie
evidence of the matters, transactions and accounts therein
contained –
(a) a certified copy of a banker’s book or an extract
thereof obtained from the manager or principal
accountant of the bank;
(b) a certified copy of any book or other record
required by law to be maintained by a company or
a certified copy of any extract thereof, obtained
from a director or secretary of the company; and
Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 21
(c) a certified copy of any document or of an extract
thereof in the proper custody of an officer of a
foreign Government, and obtained from such officer.
20. No person shall be liable in any suit or other legal Indemnity for
proceedings for any act done, or purporting to be done, in acts done in
good faith.
good faith in pursuance of the powers conferred by or under
this Act, or for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this Act.
21. (1) Except in the performance of his duties under Duty of officers
this Act, every officer or servant of the Department of Foreign and servants to
maintain
Exchange of the Central Bank shall preserve, and aid in
secrecy.
preserving, secrecy with regard to all matters that may come
to his knowledge in the performance of his duties under this
Act, and any such officer or servant who communicates any
such matter to any person other than –
(a) the person, class or classes of persons to whom that
matter relates or an authorized representative of such
person, class or classes of persons;
(b) the Monetary Board;
(c) the Governor of the Central Bank or an officer of
the Department of Foreign Exchange of the Central
Bank authorized by the Governor to obtain
information regarding that matter;
(d) the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Central Bank;
(e) a public officer authorized by the Minister to obtain
information regarding that matter; or
(f) a person to whom it is necessary to communicate
that matter for the purpose of securing compliance
with, or detecting evasion of, any provision of this
Act, or any other written Law,
22 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
or suffers or permits any unauthorized person to have access
to any book, papers or records of the aforesaid Department
or in the possession or custody, or under the control, of the
head of that Department, commits an offence.
(2) No officer or servant of the Department of Foreign
Exchange shall, in any legal proceedings to which the
Monetary Board is not a party be compellable except by
Order of the Court to produce any book or document or to
divulge or communicate any matter coming under his notice
in the performance of his duties under this Act.
Preservation of 22. (1) Where the Monetary Board advises the Minister
financial that in the opinion of the Board, remittances of foreign
stability.
exchange into or out of Sri Lanka constitute a potential
threat to the financial stability of Sri Lanka, the Minister
may, with the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers and
notwithstanding the provisions of sections 5, 6, 7 and 8 of
this Act, by Order published in the Gazette, take such steps
as may be necessary to restrict or regulate remittances of
foreign exchange into or out of Sri Lanka, for such period
not exceeding six months from the date of such Order.
(2) An Order under subsection (1) shall be communicated
forthwith to Parliament and unless Parliament determines
otherwise, shall be valid for the period specified in such
Order.
(3) The Minister may with the approval of Parliament, by
Order published in the Gazette, extend from time to time,
the period of validity of an Order made under subsection (1)
however that the period of such extensions shall not in the
aggregate exceed twelve months.
Expenses in suit 23. (1) Any expenses incurred by the Central Bank in
or prosecution any suit or prosecution brought by or against it before any
to be paid out of court, shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund and any
the Consolidated
costs paid to or recovered by the Central Bank in any such
Fund.
suit or prosecution shall be credited to the Consolidated
Fund.
