12 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
(8) (a) Court may, after considering an application made
under subsections (6) and (7) make an Order prayed for under
paragraph (d) of subsection (7) and such dealer or person
shall comply with the Order forthwith.
(b) Any dealer or person who fails to comply with an
Order of the court under paragraph (a) commits an offence
and shall, on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding
rupees five hundred thousand.
(c) Where the offence under paragraph (b) is a continuing
offence, such dealer or person shall be liable to an additional
fine of rupees hundred thousand for each day during which
such offence continued.
Failure to 11. (1) Where the Central Bank is satisfied that an
comply with a authorized dealer or restricted dealer–
provision of the
Act or any
(a) deals in foreign exchange in any current transaction
Regulation,
Order, or capital transaction contrary to the provisions of
Direction, this Act;
Guideline & etc.
made or issued (b) deals in foreign exchange in relation to foreign
thereunder.
assets contrary to the provisions of this Act;
(c) fails to comply with any guideline or direction
issued under subsections (1), (2) and (3) of section
9 or any requirement under subsection (4) of
section9; or
(d) violates any provision of this Act or any regulation
or Order made thereunder,
the Central Bank may, upon the Minister being informed,
issue a notice directing any such authorized dealer or
restricted dealer to comply with the provisions of this Act or
any regulation, Order, guideline or direction issued or made
thereunder, within the period specified therein.
(2) Where any authorized dealer or restricted dealer fails
to act in accordance with the notice issued under subsection
Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 13
(1), the Central Bank may, temporarily suspend the
authorization granted under subsection (1) of section 4 or
paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 4 or the permit
granted under paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 4 to
deal in foreign exchange.
(3) The Central Bank may, where there is a temporary
suspension under subsection (2), after an inquiry, giving the
authorized dealer or restricted dealer a reasonable
opportunity of being heard and with the approval of the
Monetary Board, revoke the authorization or permit granted
under section 4.
(4) The Central Bank may in the circumstances referred
to in subsection (1), without proceeding to revoke the
authorization or the permit under subsection (3), after giving
a reasonable opportunity of being heard and where it deems
it appropriate taking into consideration all the relevant
circumstances–
(a) require an authorized dealer or restricted dealer who
engages in any dealing in relation to foreign assets
contrary to the provisions of this Act as referred to
in paragraph (b) of subsection (1), to pay to the
Central Bank within such time as may be specified
in such requirement an amount not exceeding the
amount or value of such foreign asset or any part
thereof in foreign exchange or Sri Lanka currency
together with such expenses incurred by the Central
Bank for the detection and investigation of such
transaction; or
(b) impose a limitation on such authorized dealer or
restricted dealer who has directly or indirectly been
a party to the unauthorized transaction, from dealing
in or engaging in current or capital transactions in
relation to foreign exchange as the case may be, for
a period not exceeding twelve months.
