14 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
(5) Where any other person, class or classes of persons,
not being an authorized dealer or restricted dealer acts in
violation of the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d) of
subsection (1), the Central Bank may, upon the Minister
being informed, after giving such person a reasonable
opportunity of being heard, require such person in writing,
to pay as a penalty a sum not exceeding rupees one million
or to pay a penalty of an amount not exceeding the amount
or value of such current transaction or capital transaction or
value of such foreign asset or any part thereof in foreign
exchange or Sri Lanka currency together with such expenses
incurred by the Central Bank for the detection and
investigation of such transaction.
(6) Where the Central Bank revokes an authorization or
permit under subsection (3) or requires to pay the sum
determined under paragraph (a) of subsection (4) or imposes
a limitation under paragraph (b) of subsection (4), the Central
Bank shall communicate its decision or determination in
writing together with its reasons therefor to such authorized
dealer or restricted dealer.
(7) (a) Where any authorized dealer or restricted
dealer –
(i) aggrieved by a revocation of the authorization or
permit under subsection (3);
(ii) aggrieved by the requirement to pay the sum
determined under paragraph (a) of subsection (4);
or
(iii) aggrieved by any limitation imposed under
paragraph (b) of subsection (4),
as the case may be, he may within thirty days after such
decision or determination is communicated to such dealer,
appeal against such revocation or determination to the Board
of Inquiry which shall determine such appeal in accordance
with the procedure set out in section 13.
Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 15
(b) Where any person not being an authorized dealer or a
restricted dealer, aggrieved by a penalty imposed under
subsection (5), he may within thirty days after the
requirement to pay such penalty is communicated to such
person, appeal against such requirement to pay such penalty
to the Board of Inquiry which shall determine such appeal
in accordance with the procedure set out in section 13.
(8) Subject to any Order made on an appeal under
subsection (7), the revocation of the authorization or the
permit under subsection (3) or any limitation imposed under
subsection (4) shall, notwithstanding such appeal, take effect
from the date the Order of revocation or limitation is made
or imposed on the authorized dealer or restricted dealer, as
the case may be.
(9) Any sum paid to the Central Bank under paragraph
(a) of subsection (4) or any penalty paid under subsection
(5) shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund.
12. Every investigation and inquiry under section 11 Investigations
shall be concluded within a period of six months from the and Inquiries to
be concluded
date of commencement of such investigation or inquiry
within six
unless an extension of time is obtained with the approval of
months.
the Minister.
13. (1) The Minister shall appoint a Board of Inquiry to Board of
inquire into appeals made under paragraphs (a) and (b) of Inquiry.
subsection (7) of section 11.
(2) The Board of Inquiry appointed under subsection (1)
shall consist of the following persons appointed by the
Minister:—
(a) a retired judge of the Supreme Court or of the Court
of Appeal who shall be the Chairman of the Board;
and
(b) two persons who are conversant in matters relating
to international financial or exchange transactions
