24 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
Penalties. 26. (1) Any person who acts in contravention of the
provisions of this Act or any regulation Order or direction
issued or made thereunder for which no penalty is prescribed,
may be required in writing by the Central Bank to pay as a
penalty a sum not exceeding one million rupees, within such
period as may be specified in the notification of such
requirement.
(2) Any person aggrieved by a penalty imposed under
subsection (1) may, within thirty days after the requirement
to pay such penalty is communicated to such person, appeal
against such requirement to pay such penalty to the Board
of Inquiry which shall determine such appeal in accordance
with the procedure set out in section 13.
Amendment of 27. The Schedule to this Act may from time to time in
Schedules by the interest of the national economy be amended, altered or
Resolution of
varied by Resolution of Parliament.
Parliament.
Publication of 28. Where any regulation or Order made under this Act
Orders in daily is required to be published in the Gazette, it shall be published
newspapers.
once in three daily newspapers in the Sinhala, Tamil and
English languages.
Regulations. 29. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed or
in respect of which regulations are required or authorized to
be made under this Act.
(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of publication or on such later date as may be
specified therein.
(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall,
within three months from the date of its publication in the
Gazette be placed before Parliament for approval. Every
regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be
rescinded as from the date of disapproval, but without
prejudice to anything previously done there under.
Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 25
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
30. (1) The Exchange Control Act (Chapter 423) is Repeal and
hereby repealed. Savings.
(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid Act-
(a) all suits, actions and proceedings instituted
under the repealed Act and pending on the day
immediately prior to the appointed date, shall,
with effect from the appointed date, be deemed
to be suits, actions and proceedings instituted
under the repealed Act and be heard and
concluded under that Act; and
(b) all investigations and inquiries instituted
under the repealed Act and pending on the day
immediately prior to the appointed date, shall,
with effect from the appointed date, be deemed
to be investigations and inquiries instituted
under the repealed Act and shall be concluded
under that Act within a period of six months
from the appointed date.
31. (1) For the purpose of this Act - Currency,
securities etc.
(a) “currency” includes coins, currency
notes, postal orders, money orders,
cheques, drafts, travelers’ cheques, letters
of credit, bills of exchange, promissory
notes, other electronic fund transfer cards
and digital currency;
(b) “securities” means shares, stock, bonds,
debentures, units under a unit trust
scheme or of any mutual fund.
(2) The Central Bank may, by Notification published in
the Gazette, specify any other instrument in relation to
currency or securities which is not specified in this section.
