16 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
and have had experience at a senior managerial
level in the public or private sector and are of good
standing and repute.
(3) Every member of the Board of Inquiry shall, unless he
vacates office earlier by death, resignation or removal, hold
office for a term of three years from the date of his appointment
and unless he has been removed from office, be eligible for
re-appointment.
(4) A member of the Board of Inquiry shall be remunerated
in such manner and at such rates as may be determined by
the Minister.
(5) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or continuing as a member of the Board of Inquiry if he–
(a) if he is, or becomes a member of Parliament or any
Provincial Council or any local authority; or
(b) if he is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka ; or
(c) if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any
other country found or declared to suffer from
unsoundness of mind; or
(d) if he is serving or has served a sentence of
imprisonment imposed by any Court in Sri Lanka
or any other country; or
(e) if he has any financial or other interest as is likely
to affect prejudicially the discharge by him of his
functions as a member of the Board.
(6) (a) Any member of the Board of Inquiry may, at any
time resign from his office by letter to that effect addressed
to the Minister and such resignation shall take effect upon
such resignation being accepted by the Minister in writing.
Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 17
(b) The Minister may with the reasons assigned therefor
remove any appointed member.
(c) In the event of any post of an appointed member of the
Board of Inquiry being vacated by death, resignation,
removal or the operation of the provisions of subsection (5),
the Minister may appoint another person, having regard to
the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) to hold such office
for the unexpired period of term of office of the member
whom he succeeds.
(d) If any appointed member of the Board of Inquiry is
temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office during
any period due to ill-health or absence from Sri Lanka or for
any other cause, the Minister may appoint some other person
to act in his place for unexpired period.
(7) The Board of Inquiry shall within thirty days of the
receipt of the appeal make its determination in respect of
such matter.
(8) Every Appellant shall appear before the Board of
Inquiry in person or with an authorized representative.
(9) After the hearing of an appeal, the Board of Inquiry
may confirm, vary or reverse the decision appealed against.
(10) The decision of the Board of Inquiry and the reasons
therefor shall be in writing, be notified to the appellant and
the Board of Inquiry shall forward a report thereon to the
Minister.
14. Where any person who is required to pay any sum Liability of
of money or penalty to the Central Bank under section 11 or bodies corporate
or
13 is a body corporate or unincorporated, every director,
unincorporated.
member or partner of such body shall also be personally
liable jointly and severally to pay such amount or value and
expenses:
Provided that, such director, member or partner shall not
be liable to pay such amount or value if such person proves
