22 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
or suffers or permits any unauthorized person to have access
to any book, papers or records of the aforesaid Department
or in the possession or custody, or under the control, of the
head of that Department, commits an offence.
(2) No officer or servant of the Department of Foreign
Exchange shall, in any legal proceedings to which the
Monetary Board is not a party be compellable except by
Order of the Court to produce any book or document or to
divulge or communicate any matter coming under his notice
in the performance of his duties under this Act.
Preservation of 22. (1) Where the Monetary Board advises the Minister
financial that in the opinion of the Board, remittances of foreign
stability.
exchange into or out of Sri Lanka constitute a potential
threat to the financial stability of Sri Lanka, the Minister
may, with the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers and
notwithstanding the provisions of sections 5, 6, 7 and 8 of
this Act, by Order published in the Gazette, take such steps
as may be necessary to restrict or regulate remittances of
foreign exchange into or out of Sri Lanka, for such period
not exceeding six months from the date of such Order.
(2) An Order under subsection (1) shall be communicated
forthwith to Parliament and unless Parliament determines
otherwise, shall be valid for the period specified in such
Order.
(3) The Minister may with the approval of Parliament, by
Order published in the Gazette, extend from time to time,
the period of validity of an Order made under subsection (1)
however that the period of such extensions shall not in the
aggregate exceed twelve months.
Expenses in suit 23. (1) Any expenses incurred by the Central Bank in
or prosecution any suit or prosecution brought by or against it before any
to be paid out of court, shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund and any
the Consolidated
costs paid to or recovered by the Central Bank in any such
Fund.
suit or prosecution shall be credited to the Consolidated
Fund.
Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 23
(2) Expenses incurred by the employees of the Central
Bank in any suit or prosecution brought against such person
before any court or tribunal in respect of any act which is
done or purported to be done by such person under this Act
or any other written law or on the direction of Central Bank
shall, if that act was done in good faith, be paid out of the
Consolidated Fund, unless such expenses are recoverable
by such person in any suit or proceedings.
24. (1) It shall be an implied condition in any contract, Contracts.
entered into, by virtue of the provisions of this Act, the
permission or consent of the Central Bank is at the time of
the contract required for the performance of any term thereof,
that terms should not be performed except insofar as the
permission or consent is given or permission or consent is
not required:
Provided that, the preceding provisions of this subsection
shall not apply to that term insofar as the application of
those provisions to that term is inconsistent with the intention
of the parties to that contract, whether by reason of their
having contemplated the performance of that term despite
the provisions of this Act, or for any other reason.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in the Bills of Exchange
Ordinance (Chapter 82), neither the provisions of this Act,
nor any condition, whether express or implied having regard
to those provisions, that any payment shall not be made
without the permission of the Central Bank under this Act,
shall be deemed to prevent any instrument being a bill of
exchange or promissory note under the said Ordinance.
25. Where the provisions of any other written law impose Obligations
an obligation in respect of the doing of any act and the under other
written laws.
permission or consent of the Central Bank is, by virtue of
that Act is required for the discharge of the obligation, it
shall be an implied condition of the obligation that it shall
not be discharged except in so far as the permission or consent
is given or is not required.
