Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 15
(b) Where any person not being an authorized dealer or a
restricted dealer, aggrieved by a penalty imposed under
subsection (5), he may within thirty days after the
requirement to pay such penalty is communicated to such
person, appeal against such requirement to pay such penalty
to the Board of Inquiry which shall determine such appeal
in accordance with the procedure set out in section 13.
(8) Subject to any Order made on an appeal under
subsection (7), the revocation of the authorization or the
permit under subsection (3) or any limitation imposed under
subsection (4) shall, notwithstanding such appeal, take effect
from the date the Order of revocation or limitation is made
or imposed on the authorized dealer or restricted dealer, as
the case may be.
(9) Any sum paid to the Central Bank under paragraph
(a) of subsection (4) or any penalty paid under subsection
(5) shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund.
12. Every investigation and inquiry under section 11 Investigations
shall be concluded within a period of six months from the and Inquiries to
be concluded
date of commencement of such investigation or inquiry
within six
unless an extension of time is obtained with the approval of
months.
the Minister.
13. (1) The Minister shall appoint a Board of Inquiry to Board of
inquire into appeals made under paragraphs (a) and (b) of Inquiry.
subsection (7) of section 11.
(2) The Board of Inquiry appointed under subsection (1)
shall consist of the following persons appointed by the
Minister:—
(a) a retired judge of the Supreme Court or of the Court
of Appeal who shall be the Chairman of the Board;
and
(b) two persons who are conversant in matters relating
to international financial or exchange transactions
16 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
and have had experience at a senior managerial
level in the public or private sector and are of good
standing and repute.
(3) Every member of the Board of Inquiry shall, unless he
vacates office earlier by death, resignation or removal, hold
office for a term of three years from the date of his appointment
and unless he has been removed from office, be eligible for
re-appointment.
(4) A member of the Board of Inquiry shall be remunerated
in such manner and at such rates as may be determined by
the Minister.
(5) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or continuing as a member of the Board of Inquiry if he–
(a) if he is, or becomes a member of Parliament or any
Provincial Council or any local authority; or
(b) if he is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka ; or
(c) if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any
other country found or declared to suffer from
unsoundness of mind; or
(d) if he is serving or has served a sentence of
imprisonment imposed by any Court in Sri Lanka
or any other country; or
(e) if he has any financial or other interest as is likely
to affect prejudicially the discharge by him of his
functions as a member of the Board.
(6) (a) Any member of the Board of Inquiry may, at any
time resign from his office by letter to that effect addressed
to the Minister and such resignation shall take effect upon
such resignation being accepted by the Minister in writing.
