8 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
Provided that any such person who remits to Sri Lanka
foreign exchange not exceeding the value of one million
United States dollars held outside Sri Lanka shall not be
liable to pay the remittance fee or any other tax, surcharge,
levy or penalty and any amount remitted exceeding such
value shall be liable to pay the remittance fee specified in
subsection (3):
Provided further that any such person who remits to
Sri Lanka an amount of foreign exchange exceeding the
value of one million United States dollars held outside
Sri Lanka and invests in a development bond issued by the
Government of Sri Lanka shall not be liable to pay the
remittance fee or any other tax, surcharge, levy or penalty.
(4) Foreign Exchange held outside Sri Lanka and remitted
to Sri Lanka after the appointed date under subsection (3)
may be held in a foreign currency account or may be
converted into Sri Lanka rupees.
(5) The property referred to in subsection (3) shall not be
deemed to be the property obtained by the commission of
an offence under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,
No. 5 of 2006 even if such foreign exchange had been held
outside Sri Lanka without the permission of the Central
Bank.
(6) There shall be no restriction on the repatriation of
funds out of Sri Lanka remitted to Sri Lanka by any person
in terms of subsection (3) of section 8.
Guidelines and 9. (1) The Central Bank may from time to time, subject
directions. to informing the Minister issue guidelines and directions to
authorized dealers and restricted dealers engaging in current
transactions.
(2) The Central Bank may from time to time subject to
the approval of the Minister issue guidelines and directions
to authorized dealers and restricted dealers engaging in
capital transactions.
Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 9
(3) The Central Bank may from time to time subject to
the approval of the Minister issue guidelines and directions
to authorized dealers and restricted dealers engaging in
transactions other than those referred to in subsections (1)
and (2) relating to foreign exchange.
(4) The Central Bank may from time to time subject to
the approval of the Minister issue guidelines and directions
to any person, class or classes of persons not being an
authorized dealer or restricted dealer, permitted to deal in
foreign exchange within Sri Lanka under paragraph (c) of
subsection (2) of section 4.
(5) The Central Bank may for statistical and monitoring
purposes, request an authorized dealer or a restricted dealer
to furnish within such time as may be specified in such request,
such information or returns in such form and manner in
relation to any foreign exchange transaction engaged in by
such dealer for a period of six years immediately prior to the
date on which such request is communicated to such dealer.
10. (1) The Central Bank may, at any time, cause an Investigations of
investigation to be made, of foreign exchange transactions foreign
exchange
or foreign assets of any authorized dealer or a restricted dealer
transactions and
or any other person, class or classes of persons as the case
foreign assets.
may be, by an officer of the Department of Foreign Exchange
authorized in writing by the Central Bank (hereinafter
referred to as an “authorized person”) in that behalf.
(2) It shall be the duty of every authorized dealer or a
restricted dealer or any other person, class or classes of
persons –
(a) to permit an authorized person entry into any
premises for the purposes of such investigation;
(b) to produce any books or other documents as may
be required for the investigation by such authorized
person;
