Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 25
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
30. (1) The Exchange Control Act (Chapter 423) is Repeal and
hereby repealed. Savings.
(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid Act-
(a) all suits, actions and proceedings instituted
under the repealed Act and pending on the day
immediately prior to the appointed date, shall,
with effect from the appointed date, be deemed
to be suits, actions and proceedings instituted
under the repealed Act and be heard and
concluded under that Act; and
(b) all investigations and inquiries instituted
under the repealed Act and pending on the day
immediately prior to the appointed date, shall,
with effect from the appointed date, be deemed
to be investigations and inquiries instituted
under the repealed Act and shall be concluded
under that Act within a period of six months
from the appointed date.
31. (1) For the purpose of this Act - Currency,
securities etc.
(a) “currency” includes coins, currency
notes, postal orders, money orders,
cheques, drafts, travelers’ cheques, letters
of credit, bills of exchange, promissory
notes, other electronic fund transfer cards
and digital currency;
(b) “securities” means shares, stock, bonds,
debentures, units under a unit trust
scheme or of any mutual fund.
(2) The Central Bank may, by Notification published in
the Gazette, specify any other instrument in relation to
currency or securities which is not specified in this section.
26 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
(3) For the purpose of this Act, “a person resident in Sri
Lanka” means such person as is determined by the Minister
by Order published in the Gazette.
Sinhala text to 32. In the event of any inconsistency between the
prevail in case Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act the Sinhala text shall
of inconsistency.
prevail.
Interpretation. 33. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires–
“asset” means any movable or immovable property
of any class or description whatsoever;
“authorized dealer” means a bank licensed under
the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 authorized
under section 4 to act as authorized dealer;
“capital transaction” means a transaction which is
not a current transaction within the meaning of
this Act;
“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
established by section 5 of the Monetary Law
Act (Chapter 420);
“current transaction” means any international
transaction necessitating a transfer of foreign
exchange into or from Sri Lanka, and referred to
in paragraph (d) of Article XXX of the Articles
of the International Monetary Fund set out in
the Schedule to this Act;
“Commissioner General of Inland Revenue” means
the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue
within the meaning of Inland Revenue Act, No.
10 of 2006;
Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 27
“foreign asset” means any movable or immovable
property outside Sri Lanka of any class or
description whatsoever and without prejudice
to the generality of the preceding provisions of
this definition, includes foreign exchange,
foreign currency, foreign securities and foreign
bank accounts;
“foreign currency” means any currency other than
Sri Lankan currency;
“Foreign Currency Account” means a foreign
currency account in a licensed bank which is
authorized to deal in foreign exchange;
“foreign exchange” means foreign currency and
includes –
(a) deposits, credits and balances payable in
foreign currency;
(b) drafts, travelers’ cheques, letters of credit
and bills of exchange drawn in Sri Lanka
and payable outside Sri Lanka in foreign
currency;
(c) drafts, travelers’ cheques, letters of credit
and bills of exchange drawn outside Sri
Lanka but payable in Sri Lankan
currency;
(d) any document or instrument of a type
customarily employed for international
transfers of funds;
“foreign exchange dealings” includes accepting,
buying, selling, borrowing and lending of
28 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
foreign exchange and exchange to any other
foreign currency;
“foreign security” means a security denominated or
expressed in foreign currency and issued outside
Sri Lanka;
“licensed bank” means a licensed commercial bank
or a licensed specialized bank;
“licensed commercial bank” means a bank licensed
under subsection (4) of section 2 of the Banking
Act, No. 30 of 1988;
“licensed specialized bank” means a bank licensed
under subsection (3) of section 76A of the
Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;
“Minister” means the Minister assigned the subject
of Central Bank;
“Monetary Board” means the Monetary Board of
the Central Bank of Sri Lanka;
“permit” means a permit granted to a restricted
dealer under paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of
section 4;
“person” means any natural or legal person including
partnerships;
“person resident outside Sri Lanka” means a person
who is not a resident in Sri Lanka; and
“Sri Lankan currency” means currency which is
expressed or drawn in Sri Lanka rupees.
Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 29
SCHEDULE
(sections 5, 6 and 33)
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
Articles on Agreement
ARTICLE XXX
EXPLANATION OF TERMS
(d) Payments for current transactions means payments which are
not for the purpose of transferring capital assets, and includes, without
limitation—
(1) all payments due in connection with foreign trade, other
current business, including services, and normal short term
banking and credit facilities;
(2) payments due as interest on loans and as net income from
other investments;
(3) payments of moderate amount for amortization of loans or
for depreciation of direct investments; and
(4) moderate remittances for family living expenses.
The Fund may, after consultation with the members concerned,
determine whether certain specific transactions are to be considered
current transactions or capital transactions.
