Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 1
[Certified on 28th of July, 2017]
L.D.— O. 42/2003.
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PROMOTION AND REGULATION OF FOREIGN
EXCHANGE; TO VEST THE RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROMOTING AND
REGULATING FOREIGN EXCHANGE IN THE CENTRAL BANK AS THE
AGENT OF THE GOVERNMENT; TO PROVIDE FOR THE REPEAL OF THE
EXCHANGE CONTROL ACT (CHAPTER 423); AND TO PROVIDE FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Foreign Exchange Act, Short title and
No. 12 of 2017 and shall come into operation on such date date of
operation.
as the Minister may by Order published in the Gazette
appoint (hereinafter referred to as “the appointed date”).
2. (1) The Central Bank shall as the agent of the Central Bank to
Government, be responsible for implementing the provisions be responsible
for
of this Act in order to ensure proper promotion and regulation
implementation
of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka, in accordance with such
of the Act.
directions as may from time to time be issued in that behalf
under this section.
(2) The Minister assigned the subject of the Central Bank
may, from time to time, issue such directions as may be
necessary for the implementation of the provisions of this
Act and it shall be the duty of the Monetary Board to cause
such directions to be carried out.
3. Where under any provision of this Act any power, Discharge of
duty or function is authorized or required to be exercised, powers, duties
and functions by
performed or discharged by the Central Bank, such power,
the Central
duty or function may be exercised, performed or discharged
Bank.
by the officer designated as the head of the Department of
Foreign Exchange or on his behalf any other officer
designated as an assistant to him, subject to the direction
and control of the Governor of the Central Bank.
2—PL 005162—2,961 (04/2017)
2 Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
Authorized 4. (1) (a) Every licensed commercial bank shall,
dealers and immediately upon such bank being issued a license to carry
restricted
on banking business under the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988,
dealers.
be authorized by the Central Bank to act, subject to the
provisions of section 9 as an authorized dealer to deal in
foreign exchange.
(b) Every licensed commercial bank which is on the
appointed date carrying on banking business, shall subject
to the provisions of section 9, be deemed to have been
authorized by the Central Bank, to act as an authorized dealer
to deal in foreign exchange.
(c) Every licensed specialised bank, immediately upon
such bank being issued a license to carry on banking business
under the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988, may be authorized
by the Central Bank subject to the provisions of section 9,
to deal in foreign exchange for the purposes specified in
such authorization.
(d) Every licensed specialised bank which is on the
appointed date carrying on banking business, shall subject
to the provisions of section 9, be deemed to have been
authorized by the Central Bank to deal in foreign exchange
for the purposes specified in such authorization.
(2) (a) The Central Bank may permit, subject to the
provisions of section 9, any person, class or classes of persons
(hereinafter referred to as a “restricted dealer”) not being an
authorized dealer, to deal in foreign exchange within Sri
Lanka for the purposes specified in the permit, subject to
such terms and conditions as may be imposed by the Central
Bank in that behalf.
(b) Every dealer in foreign exchange including money
changers or any other person other than licensed commercial
banks or specialised banks, which are on the appointed date
permitted to deal in foreign exchange, shall subject to the
provisions of section 9, be deemed to have been permitted
