cap.96] trusts (a) a transferee in good faith for retains all the assets in the business. 1 may consideration without having notice compel him, as partner, to account for so much of the profits as arc derived from a's of the trust, either when the share of the capital. b is also answerable to purchase money was paid, or when z for the improper employment of a's the conveyance was executed ; or assets. (b) ii transferee for consideration from (a) a, a trader, bequeaths his property to b in trust such a transferee. for c, appoints b his sole executor, and dies. b enters into partnership with x and y in (2) a judgment-creditor of the trustee the same trade, and employs a's assets in the partnership business. b gives an indemnity to attaching and purchasing trust property is x and y against the claims of c. here x and not a transferee for consideration within the y arc jointly liable with b to c as having meaning of this section. knowingly become parlies to the breach of trust committed by b. (3) nothing in section 65 applies to 70. where one of several beneficiaries liability of money or currency notes in the hands of a being competent to contract— beneficiary bona fide holder to whom they have passed joining on in circulation, or to negotiable instruments (a) joins in committing a breach of breach of trust. in the hands of a bona fide holder tor value, trust ; or or shall be deemed to affect sections 22 and 23 of the sale of goods ordinance, or the (b) knowingly obtains .any advantage rights of any holder in good faith for therefrom without the consent of consideration of any document of title which the other beneficiaries ; or by law passes the ownership of goods to (c) becomes aware of a breach of trust which it relates by endorsement or delivery, committed or intended to be or the liability of a person to whom a debt committed, and either actually or charge is transferred, or the right of a conceals it, or does not within a person who holds property under a title reasonable time take proper steps to declared indefeasible by statute or of his protect the interests of the other successor in title. beneficiaries ; or acquisition by 67. where a trustee wrongfully sells or (d/) has deceived the trustee and thereby trustee of trust otherwise transfers trust property and property induced him to commit a breach of afterwards himself becomes the owner of the wrongfully trust, converted- property, the property again becomes subject to the trust, notwithstanding any the other beneficiaries are entitled to have want of notice on the part of intervening all his beneficial interest impounded as transferees in good faith for consideration. against him and all who claim under him right in case 68. where the trustee wrongfully (otherwise than as transferees for of blended mingles the trust property with his own, the consideration without notice of the breach) property. until the loss caused by the breach has been beneficiary is entitled to a charge on the compensated. whole fund for the amount due to him. wrongful 69. if a partner, being a trustee, 71. every person to whom a beneficiary rights and employment by wrongfully employs trust property in the transfers his interests has the rights, and is liabilities of partner trustee beneficiary's business or on the account of the subject to the liabilities, of the beneficiary in of trust , transferee. property for partnership, no other partner is liable respect of such interest at the date of the partnership therefor in his personal capacity to the transfer. purposes. beneficiaries unless he had notice of the breach of trust. the partners having such chapter vii notice are jointly and severally liable for the, breach of trust. . of vacating the office of trustee illustrations 72. the office of a trustee is vacated by office how his death or by his discharge from his office. vacated. (a) a and b are partners. a dies, having bequeathed all his properly to b in trust for z, and 73. a trustee may be discharged from discharge of appointed b his sole executor. b, instead of his office only as follows :— trustee. winding up the affairs of the partnership, iv/218 trusts [cap.96 (a) by the extinction of the trust ; consent of the court) the retiring trustees, if they all retire (b) by the completion of his duties simultaneously, or (with the like under the trust ; consent) the last retiring trustee. (c) by such means as may be prescribed (2) every such appointment shall be by by the instrument of trust or by any writing under the hand of the person scheme under this ordinance ; making it, and shall be notarially executed. (d) by appointment under this (3) every instrument by which any such ordinance of a new trustee in his appointment is made, in so far as it affects place ; immovable property, shall contain the particulars required by section 13 of the (e) by consent of himself and the registration of documents ordinance and beneficiary, or, where there are shall be deemed to be an instrument more beneficiaries than one, by the affecting land for the purposes of the said consent of all the beneficiaries being ordinance : competent to contract ; or provided that no deed of appointment of by the court. (f) a trustee of any charitable trust shall be pelilion to be 74. notwithstanding the provisions of deemed to be invalidated by reason of the discharged section 11, every trustee may apply by fact that it does not contain the said from trust- petition to the court to be discharged from particulars, or shall be liable to be defeated his office ; and, if the court finds that there by the registration of any subsequent deed, is sufficient reason for such discharge, it order, or other instrument under section 7 may discharge him accordingly, and direct of the said ordinance. his costs to be paid out of the trust (4) on an appointment of a new trustee, property. but where there is no such reason, the number of trustees may be increased. the court shall not discharge him, unless a proper person can be found to take his (5) the provisions of this section relative place. to a trustee who is dead include the case of a appointment 75. (1) whenever any person appointed person nominated trustee in a will but dying of new trustees a trustee disclaims, or any trustee, either before the testator, and those relative to a on death. &c, original or substituted, dies, or is absent continuing trustee include a refusing or from sri lanka for such a continuous period retiring trustee if willing to act in the and under such circumstances that, in the execution of the power. opinion of the court, it is desirable, in the 76. (1) whenever any such vacancy or appointment interests of the trust, that his office should disqualification occurs, and it is found not by court. be declared vacant, or is declared an reasonably practicable to appoint a new insolvent, or desires to be discharged from trustee under section 75, or where for any the trust, or refuses or is or becomes, in the other reason the due execution of the trust opinion of the court, unfit or personally is or becomes impracticable, the beneficiary incapable to act in the trust, or accepts an may, without instituting a suit, apply by inconsistent trust, a new trustee may be petition to the court for the appointment of appointed in his place by— a trustee or a new trustee, and the court (a) the person nominated for that purpose may appoint ,a trustee or a new trustee by the instrument of trust (if any) ; accordingly. or (2) in appointing new trustees, the court rules for (b) if there be no such person, or no such shall have regard— selecting new trustees. person able and willing to act, the (a) to the wishes of the author of the trust author of the trust if he be alive and as expressed in or to be inferred competent to contract, or the from the instrument of trust; surviving or continuing trustees or trustee for the time being, or legal (b) to the wishes of the person, if any, representative of the last surviving empowered to appoint new and continuing trustee, or (with the trustees ; 16- iv/219 cap.96] trusts (c) to the question whether the instrument or order shall have been given by appointment will promote or or on behalf of the new trustee so appointed impede the execution of the trust; to the person or authority in charge of the and register or book in which such stocks, shares, or securities, as the case may be, are (d) where there are more beneficiaries entered, and upon such notice in writing than one, to the interests of all such being given, and on reasonable proof being beneficiaries. furnished that such stocks, shares, or securities form pan of the said trust (3) every order of appointment made property, the new trustee shall be entitled to under this section shall, in so far as it affects a transfer into his name of any such stocks, immovable property, contain the particulars shares, or securities, and to the receipt of all required by section 13 of the registration of dividends, interest, or other sums due, or to documents ordinance and section 29 of the become due, in respect of any such stocks. said ordinance shall apply to every such shares, or securities. order in the same manner as if it were an instrument which affects land ; 78- on the death or discharge of one of survival of provided that no order of appointment of several co-trustees the trust survives, and the trust- a trustee of any charitable trust under this trust property passes to the others, unless section shall be deemed to be invalidated by the instrument of trust expressly declares reason of the fact that it does not contain otherwise. the said particulars, or shall be liable to be defeated by the registration of any. chapter viii subsequent deed, order, or other instrument under section 7 of the said ordinance. of the extinction of trusts vesting of trust 77. (1) whenever any new trustee is 79. a trust is extinguished— trust how property in appointed under section 75 or section 76, or extinguished. new trustees- under or in pursuance of any other (a) when its purpose is completely provision of this ordinance, all the trust fulfilled ; or property for the time being vested in the (b) when its purpose becomes unlawful; surviving or continuing trustees or trustee, or or in the legal representatives of any trustee, and all the rights of suit in relation thereto (c) subject to the powers of the court of the trustee in whose place the under chapter x and to section 110 appointment is made, shall become vested in (4), when the fulfilment of its such new trustee, either solely or jointly purpose becomes impossible by with the surviving or continuing trustees or destruction of the trust property or trustee, as the case may require. otherwise ; or powers of new (2) every new trustee so appointed, and (d) when the trust, being revocable, is trustees. every trustee appointed by a court cither expressly revoked. before or after the passing of this ordinance, shall have the same powers, 80. (1) a trust created by will may be revocation of authorities, and discretions, and shall in all revoked at the pleasure of the testator. trust' respect act as if he had been originally (2) a trust created otherwise than by will nominated a trustee by the author of the can be revoked only— trust. (a) where all the beneficiaries are (3) where any trust property comprises « competent to contract, by their any stocks or any shares or securities consent , transferable in any book kept by any company or society, or any shares in any (b) where the trust has been declared by ship registered under the law relating to a non-testimentary instrument or by merchant shipping, an instrument or order word of mouth, in exercise of a of appointment shall not take effect so far power of revocation expressly as it relates thereto, unless and until notice reserved to the author of the trust; in writing of the appointment under such or iv/220 trusts [cap.96 (c) where the trust is for the payment of 84. where property is transferred to one transfer to one the debts of the author of the trust, person for a consideration paid or provided for consideration and has not been communicated to by another person, and it appears that such paid by the creditors, at the pleasure of the other person did not intend to pay or provide another. author of the trust. such consideration for the benefit of the transferee, the transferee must hold the illustration property for the benefit of the person paying or providing the consideration. a conveys properly to b in trust to sell the same and pay out of the proceeds the claims of a's 85. where a trust is incapable of being trust incapable creditors. a reserves no power of revocation. executed, or where the trust is completely of execution or if no communication has been made to the executed executed without exhausting the trust creditors. a may revoke the trust. but if the without creditors are parties to the arrangement, the property, the trustee, in the absence of a exhausting trust trust cannot be revoked without their direction to the contrary, must hold the trust property. consent. property, or so much thereof as is unexhausted, for the benefit of the author of revocation not 81. no trust can be revoked by the the trust or his legal representative. to defeat what author of the trust so as to defeat or trustees have prejudice what the trustees may have duly illustrations duly done. done in execution of the trust. (a) a conveys certain land to b— " upon trust ", and no trust is declared ; or chapter ix " upon trust to be thereafter declared ", and no such declaration is ever made ; or constructive trusts upon trusts that are too vague to be executed ; or where 82. an obligation in the nature of a upon trusts that become incapable of taking obligation in trust (hereinafter referred to as a effect; or nature of trust " constructive trust ") is created in the "in trust for c ", and c renounces his interest is created. following cases. under the trust. in each of these cases b holds the land for the benefit where it does 83. where the owner of property of a. not appear that transfers or bequeaths it, and it cannot transferor (b) a transfers rs. 10,000 in the four per cents, to b, in reasonably be inferred consistently with the intended to trust to pay the interest annually accruing due dispose of attendant circumstances that he intended to . to c for her life. a dies- then c dies. b, holds beneficial dispose of the beneficial interest therein, the the fund for the benefit of a's legal interest. representatives. transferee or legatee must hold such property for the benefit of the owner or his (c) a conveys land to b upon trust to sell it and apply one moiety of the proceeds for certain legal representative. charitable purposes, and the other for the maintenance of a particular form of worship. illustrations b sells the land, but the charitable purposes (a) a conveys land to b without consideration and wholly fail, and the maintenance of the worship does not exhaust the second moiety of declares no trust of any part. it cannot, the proceeds- b holds the first moiety and the consistently with the circumstances under part unapplied of the second moiety for the which the transfer is made, reasonably be benefit of a or his legal representative. inferred thai a intended to transfer the beneficial interest in the land. b holds the (d) a bequeaths rs. 10,000 to b, to be laid out in land for the benefit of a. buying land to be conveyed for purposes which either wholly or partially fail to take (b) a transfers certain stock belonging to him into the effect. b holds for the benefit of a's legal joint names of himself and b. it cannot, representative the undisposed of interest in the consistently with the circumstances under money or land, if purchased. which the transfer is made, reasonably be 86. where the owner of property transfers transfer for inferred that a intended to transfer the beneficial interest in the stock during his life. it to another for an illegal purpose, and such illegal purpose. a and b hold the stock for the benefit of a purpose is not carried out into execution, or during his life. the transferor is not as guilty as the transferee, (c) a makes a gift of certain land to his wife b. she or the effect of permitting the transferee to takes the beneficial interest in the land free retain the property might be to defeat the from any trust in favour of a, for it may provisions of any law, the transferee must reasonably be inferred from the hold the property for the benefit of the circumstances that the gift was for b's transferor. benefit. iv/221 cap. 96] trusts bequest for 87. (1) where a testator bequeaths (c) a, a partner, buys land in his own name with illegal purpose. certain property upon trust, and the purpose funds belonging to the partnership. a holds such land for the benefit of the partnership. of the trust appears on the face of the will to be unlawful, or during the testator's lifetime (d) a, a partner, employed on behalf of himself and the legatee agrees with him to apply the his co-partners in negotiating the terms of a lease, clandestinely stipulates with the lessor property for an unlawful purpose, the for payment to himself of a lakh of rupees. a legatee must hold the property for the holds the lakh for the benefit of the benefit of the testator's legal representative. ' partnership. bequest of (2) where property is bequeathed and the (e) a and b are partners- a dies. b, instead of winding up the affairs of the partnership, which revocation of the bequest is prevented by revocation is retains all the assets in the business. b must prevented by duress, the legatee must hold the property account to a's legal representative for the duress. for the benefit of the testator's legal profits arising from a's share of the capital. representative. (f) a, an agent employed to obtain a lease for b, obtains the lease for himself. a holds the transfer 88. where property is transferred in lease for the benefit of b. pursuant to pursuance of a contract which is liable to rescindable' (g) a, a guardian, buys up for himself incumb ranees rescission or induced by fraud or mistake, contract- on his ward b's estate at an under-value. a the transferee must, on receiving notice to holds for the benefit of b the incumb ranees that effect, hold the property for the benefit so bought, and can only charge him with of the transferor, subject to repayment by what he has actually paid. the latter of the consideration actually paid, 91. where, by the exercise of undue advantage and subject to any compensation or other influence, any advantage is gained in gained by relief to which the.transferee may be by law exercise of derogation of the interests of another, the undue entitled.' person gaining such advantage without influence. consideration, or with notice that such debtor 89. where a debtor becomes the influence has been exercised, must hold the becoming executor or other legal representative of his advantage for the benefit of the person creditor's creditor, he must hold the debt for the whose interests have been so prejudiced. representative. benefit of the persons interested therein. 92. where a co-owner, mortgagee, or advantage advantage 90. where a trustee, executor, partner, other person with a qualified interest in any gained by gained by agent, director of a company, legal adviser, property, by availing himself of his position qualified fiduciary. or other person bound in a fiduciary as such, gains an advantage in derogation of character to protect the interests of another the rights of the other persons interested in person, by availing himself of his character, the property, or where any such person, as gains for himself any pecuniary advantage, or representing all persons interested in such where any person so bound enters into any property, gains any advantage, he must dealings under circumstances in which his hold, for the benefit of all persons so own interests are, or may be, adverse to interested, the advantage so gained, but those of such other person and thereby subject to repayment by such persons of gains for himself a pecuniary advantage, he their due share of the expenses properly incurred, and to an indemnity by the same must hold for the benefit of such other persons against liabilities properly person the advantage so gained. contracted, in gaining such advantage. illustrations illustration (a) a, an executor, buys at an under-value from b, a legatee, his claim under the will. b is a mortgages land to b, who enters into possession. b ignorant of the value of the bequest. a must - allows taxes due on the land to fall into hold for the benefit of b the difference arrear with a view to the land being put up between the price and value. for sale and his becoming himself the purchaser of it. the land is accordingly sold (b) a, a trustee, retires from his trust in to b. subject to the repayment of the consideration of his successor paying him a amount due on the mortgage and of his sum of money. a holds such money for the expenses properly incurred as mortgagee, b benefit of his beneficiary. holds the land for the benefit of a. iv/222