trusts [cap. 96 (d) where he may be fairly presumed to compound interest, or with the amount of have received interest; such securities as he might have purchased with the trust money when the investment (e) where the breach consists in failure to should have been made, together with the invest trust money and to accumulate amount of the accumulation which would have arisen from a proper investment of the the interest or dividend thereon, he is intermediate dividends. liable to account for compound interest (with half-yearly rests) at the (g) trust property is invested in one of the securities mentioned in section 20, clause (a), (c), or ((d). same rate ; the trustee sells such security for some purpose not authorized by the terms of the (f) where the breach consists in the instrument of trust. he is liable, at the option employment of trust property or the of the beneficiary, either to replace the security proceeds thereof in trade or business, with the intermediate dividends and interest he is liable to account, at the option thereon, or to account for the proceeds of the of the beneficiary, either for sale with interest thereon. compound interest (with half-yearly (h) the trust property consists of land. the trustee sells rests) at the same rate or for the net the land to a purchaser for a consideration profits made by such employment. without notice of the trust. the trustee is liable, at the option of the beneficiary, to (3) he is liable in case (a) to account for the purchase other land of equal value to be interest actually received, and in cases (b), (c), settled upon the like trust, or to be charged with the proceeds of the sale with interest. and (d) to account for simple interest at the rate of six per centum per annum, unless the 24. a trustee who is liable for a loss no set-off court otherwise directs. occasioned by a breach of trust in respect of allowed to trustee one portion of the trust property cannot set illustrations off against his liability a gain which has accrued to another portion of the trust (a) a trustee improperly leaves trust property outstanding, and it is consequently lost ; he is property through another and distinct breach liable tomake good the property lost, but he is of trust. not liable to pay interest thereon. 25. where a trustee succeeds another, he non-liability for (b) a bequeaths a house to b in trust to sell it and pay is not, as such, liable for the acts or defaults predecessor's the proceeds to c. b neglects to sell the house default. of his predecessor. for a great length of time, whereby the house is deteriorated and its market price falls. b is 26. (1) subject to the provisions of non-liability for answerable to c for the loss. sections 13 and 15, one trustee is not, as such, co-trustee's (c) a trustee is guilty of unreasonable delay in investing liable for a breach of trust committed by his default. trust money in accordance with section 20, or co-trustee : in paying it to the beneficiary. the trustee is liable to pay interest thereon for the period of provided that, in the absence of an express the delay; declaration to the contrary in the instrument (d) the duty of the trustee is to invest trust money in of trust, a trustee is so liable— any of the securities mentioned in section 20. instead of so doing, he retains the money in (a) where he has delivered trust property to his hands. he is liable, at the option of the his co-trustee without seeing to its beneficiary, to be charged either with the proper application ; amount of the principal money and interest, or with the amount of such securities as he might (b) where he allows his co-trustee to receive have purchased with the trust money when the investment should have been made, and the trust property and fails to make due intermediate dividends and interest thereon. inquiry as to the co-trustee's dealings (e) the instrument of trust directs the trustee to invest therewith, or allows him to retain it trust money either in any such securities or on longer than the circumstances of the mortgage of immovable property. the trustee case reasonably require ; does neither. he is liable for the principal money and interest. (c) where he becomes aware of a breach of (f) the instrument of trust directs the trustee to invest trust committed or intended by his trust money in any of such securities and to co-trustee, and either actively accumulate the dividends thereon. the trustee conceals it, or does not within a disregards the direction. he is liable at the reasonable time take proper steps to option of the beneficiary, to be charged either protect the beneficiary's interest. with the amount of the principal money and 1v/211 cap.96] trusts joining in (2) a co-trustee who jons in signing a 30. subject to the provisions of the indemnity of receipt for receipt for trust property, if he proves, or if instrument of trust and of sections 23 and 26, trustees. conformity. . . . , , , • , it otherwise appears that he has not received trustees shall be respectively chargeable only the same, is not answerable, by reason of for such moneys, stocks, funds, and securities - such signature only, for loss or as they respectively actually receive, and shall misapplication of the property by his not be answerable the one for the other of co-trustee. them, nor for any banker, broker, or other person in whose hands any trust property illustration may be placed, nor for the insufficiency or deficiency of any stocks, funds, or securities, a bequeaths certain property to b and c, and directs nor otherwise for involuntary losses. them to sell it and invest the proceeds for the benefit of d. b and c accordingly sell the 31. if it appears to the court that a trustee relief of trustee property, and the purchase money is received is or may be personally liable for any breach from by b and retained in his hands. c pays no consequences of attention to the matter for two years, and of trust, whether the transaction alleged to be breach of trust. then calls on b to make the investment. b is a breach of trust occurred before or after the unable to do so. becomes insolvent, and the commencement of this ordinance, but has purchase money is lost, c may be compelled acted honestly and reasonably and ought to make good the amount. fairly to be excused for the breach of trust, several liability 27. (1) where co-trustees jointly commit and for omitting to obtain the directions of of co-trustees. a breach of trust, or where one of them by the court in the matter in which he committed his neglect enables the other to commit a such breach, then the court may relieve the breach of (rust, each is liable to the trustee either wholly or partly from personal beneficiary for the whole of the loss liability for the same. occasioned by such breach. chapter iv contribution but as between the trustees themselves, if as between one be less guilty than another and has had of the rights and powers co-trustees. to refund the loss, the former may compel of trustees the latter, or his legal representative to the 32. a trustee is entitled to have in his right to title extent of the assets he has received, to make possession the instrument of trust and all the deed- good such loss, and if all be equally guilty, documents of title (if any) relating solely to any one or more of the trustees who has had the trust property. to refund the loss may compel the others to contribute. 33. (1) every trustee may reimburse right to himself , or pay or discharge out of the trust reimbursement (2) nothing in this section shall be property, all expenses properly incurred in or of expenses deemed to authorize a trustee who has been about the execution of the trust, or the guilty of fraud to institute a suit to compel realization, reservation, or benefit of the trust contribution. property, or the protection or support of the beneficiary. non-liability of 28. when any beneficiary's interest (2) if he pays such expenses out of his own trustee paying becomes vested in another person, and the pocket, he has a first charge upon the trust without notice trustee, not having notice of the vesting, property for such expenses and interest of transfer by beneficiary. pays or delivers trust property to the person thereon ; but such charge (unless the expenses who would have been entitled thereto in the have been incurred with the sanction of the absence of such vesting, the trustee is not court) shall be enforced only by prohibiting liable for the property'so paid or delivered. any disposition of the trust property without previous payment of such expenses and interest. liability of 29. when the beneficiary's interest is trustee where forfeited or awarded by legal adjudication (3)' if the trust property fail, the trustee is beneficiary's interest is to government, the trustee is bound to hold entitled to recover from the beneficiary forfeited to the trust property to the extent of such personally on whose behalf he acted, and at government. interest for the benefit of such person in whose request, expressed or implied, he such manner as the government may direct made the payment, the amount of such in this behalf. expenses. 1v/212 trusts [cap.96 right to be (4) where a trustee has by mistake made trust property examined and settled ; and, recouped for an overpayment to the beneficiary, he may where nothing is due to the beneficiary erroneous reimburse the trust property out of the under the trust, to an acknowledgment in overpayment. beneficiary's interest. if such interest fail, writing to that effect. the trustee is entitled to recover from the 37. in addition to the powers expressly general beneficiary personally the amount of such conferred by this ordinance and by the authority of overpayment. instrument of trust, and subject to the trustee right to 34. (1) a person other than a trustee, or restrictions, if any, contained in such indemnity from a transferee in good faith for consideration instrument and to the provisions of section gainer by who has gained an advantage from a breach 17, a trustee may do all acts which are breach of trust. of trust must indemnify the trustee to the reasonable and proper for the realization, extent of the amount actually received by protection, or benefit of the trust property, such person under the breach, and where and for the protection or support of a such person is a beneficiary, the trustee has beneficiary who is not competent to a charge on his interest for such amount. contract. (2) nothing in this section shall be 38. (1) except with the permission of the power to lease. deemed to entitle a trustee to be indemnified court, and subject to any special statutory who has in committing the breach of trust, provision in that behalf, no trustee shall been guilty of fraud. lease trust property for a term expiring at a date later than the end of ten years from the illustration date of the execution of the lease, or if the date of the termination of the trust is the trustee of a family trust bona fide pays over a certain part of the trust moneys to a member ascertained, for a term expiring at a date of the family contrary to the terms of the later than the date of such termination, nor instrument of trust, and the court orders the without reserving the best yearly rent that trustee to replace the money. he is entitled can be reasonably obtained. to be indemnified by the person to whom he has paid il. (2) any lease executed without the right to apply 35. (1) any trustee may, without permission of the court for a term exceeding to court for instituting a suit, apply by petition to the the limits authorized by this section shall be opinion in court for its opinion, advice, or direction on void to the extent to which it so exceeds the management of trust property. any present questions respecting the said limits. management or administration of the trust property other than questions of detail, 39. where the trustee is empowered to power to sell in difficulty, or importance not proper, in the sell any trust property, he may sell the same, lots, and either by public opinion of the court, for summary disposal. subject to prior charges or not, and either auction or together or in lots, by public auction or private (2) a copy of such petition shall be served private contract, and either at one time or at contract. upon, and the hearing thereof may be several times, unless the instrument of trust attended by, such of the persons interested otherwise directs. in the application as the court thinks fit. 40. (1) the trustee making any such sale power to sell (3) the trustee stating in good faith the may insert such reasonable stipulations under special facts in such petition, and acting upon the conditions. either as to title or evidence of title, or terms opinion, advice, or direction given by the of payment, or otherwise, in any conditions court, shall be deemed, so far as regards his of sale or contract for sale, as he thinks fit ; own responsibility, to have discharged his and may also buy in the property or any part power to buy duty as such trustee in the subject-matter of thereof at any sale by auction, and rescind in and re-sell. the application. »or vary any contract for sale, and re-sell the (4) the costs of every application under property so bought in, or as to which the this section shall be in the discretion of the contract is' so rescinded, without being court to which it is made. responsible to the beneficiary for any loss occasioned thereby : right to 36. when the duties of a trustee, as settlement of such, are completed, he is entitled to have provided he shall have acted in good faith accounts. the accounts of his administration of the and without negligence, iv/213 cap.96] trusts time allowed (2) where a trustee is directed to sell trust and the resulting income thereof from time for selling trust property or to invest trust money in the to time in securities in which he is by the property. purchase of property, he may exercise a instrument of trust, if any, or by section 20 reasonable discretion as to the time of of this ordinance, authorized to invest trust effecting the sale or purchase. money, and shall hold the accumulations for the benefit of the minor ; but so that the illustrations trustee may at any time, if he thinks fit, (a) a bequeaths property to b, directing him to sell it apply the accumulations, or any part with all convenient speed and pay the thereof, as if the same were income arising proceeds to c. this does not render an in the then current year. immediate sale imperative. (3) this section applies only if and as far (b) a bequeaths property to b, directing him to sell it as contrary intention is not expressed in the at such time and in such manner as he shall think fit and invest the proceeds for the instrument of trust, and shall have effect benefit of c. this does not authorize b, as subject to the terms of that instrument and between him and c, to postpone the sale to to the provisions therein contained. an indefinite period. (4) where the income of the trust power to 41. for the purpose of completing any convey. such sale, the trustee shall have power to property is insufficient for the minor's maintenance, or education, or marriage, or convey or otherwise dispose of the property advancement in life, the trustee may, with the sold in such manner as may be necessary. permission of the court, and not otherwise, power to vary 42. (1) a trustee may, at his discretion, apply the whole or any part of such invest menls. call in any trust property invested in any property for or towards such maintenance, security and invest the same on any of the education, marriage, or advancement. securities mentioned or referred to in section 20, and from time to time vary any such 44. any trustees or trustee may give a power to give investments for others of the same nature. receipt in writing for any money, securities, receipts. or other movable property payable, power of court (2) when any immovable property is the transferable, or deliverable to them or him to authorize subject-matter of any trust, the court may by reason, or in the exercise, of any trust or sale, exchange, authorize any sale, exchange, mortgage, or &c., of trust power ; and, in the absence of fraud, such property. other disposition of the property, which it receipt shall discharge the person paying, considers to be in the interests of the objects transferring, or delivering the same of the trust. therefrom, and from seeing to the application thereof, or being accountable (3) nothing contained in subsection" (2) for any loss or misapplication thereof. shall be deemed to derogate from the rights of a trustee under subsection (1). 45. (1) two or more trustees acting power to together, or if there is only one trustee of compound, power to apply 43. (1) where any property is held by a &c. property of trustee in trust for a minor, either for life or the trust, such trustee may, if and as they or minors, &c., for any greater interest, and whether he shall think fit— for their maintenance. absolutely or contingently on his attaining (a) accept any composition or any the age of majority, or on the occurrence of security for any debt or for any any event before his attaining that age, the property claimed ; trustee may at his sole discretion pay to the minor's parent or guardian, if any, or (b) allow any time for payment of any otherwise apply for or towards the minor's debt ; maintenance, education, or benefit, the income of the property, or any part thereof, (c) compromise, compound, abandon, whether there is any other fund applicable , submit to arbitration, or otherwise to the same purpose, or any person bound settle any debt, account, claim, or by law to provide for the minor's thing whatever relating to the trust ; maintenance or education or not. and (2) the trustee shall accumulate all the (d) for any of those purposes enter into, residue of the income in the way of give, execute, and do such compound interest by investing the same agreements, instruments of iv/214 trusts [cap. 96 composition or arrangement, (a) the instrument of trust so provides ; or releases, and other things as to (b) the delegation is in the regular course them or him seem expedient, of business ; or without being responsible for any loss occasioned by any act or thing (c) the delegation is necessary ; or so done by them or him in good (d) the beneficiary, being competent to faith and without negligence. contract, consents to the delegation ; or (2) the powers conferred by subsection (i) on two or more trustees acting together (e) the court so directs, may be exercised by a sole acting trustee, explanation.—the appointment of an attorney or when by the instrument of trust, if any, a agent or proxy to do an act merely ministerial sole trustee is authorized to execute the and involving no independent discretion is not trusts and powers thereof. a delegation within the meaning of this section. (3) this section applies only if and as far illustrations as a contrary intention is not expressed in (a) a bequeaths certain property to b and c on certain the instrument of trust if any, and shall have trusts to be executed by them or the survivor of them or the assigns of such survivor. b dies. effect subject to the terms of that instrument c may bequeath the trust property to d and e and to the provisions therein contained. upon the trusts of a's will. (4) nothing in this section shall be (b) a is a trustee of certain property with power to sell deemed to affect the application of the law the same. a may employ an auctioneer to relating to the property of minors. effect the sale. (c) a bequeaths to b fifty houses let at monthly rents in power to 46. when an authority to deal with the trust to collect the rents and pay them to c. b several trustees trust property is given to several trustees may employ a proper person to collect these of whom one and one of them disclaims or dies, the rents. disclaims or • dies. authority may be exercised by the- 50. when there are more trustees than co-trustees continuing trustees, unless from the terms of one, all must join in the execution of the trust, cannot act the instrument of trust it is apparent that except where the instrument of trust otherwise singly. the authority is to be exercised by a number provides, or except when on good cause in excess of the number of the remaining shown the court otherwise directs. trustees. 51. where a discretionary power control of" suspension of 47. where a decree has been made in a conferred on a trustee is not exercised discretionary trustee's power suit for the execution of a trust, the trustee reasonably and in good faith, such power may power. by decree. must not exercise any of his powers except in be controlled by the court. conformity with such decree, or with the 52. (1) in the absence of express trustee may sanction of the court by which the decree has directions to the contrary contained in the not charge for been made, or, where an appeal against the instrument of trust, or of a contract to the services decree is pending, of the court of appeal. contrary entered into with the beneficiary, an order of court, or express statutory provision chapter v in that behalf, a trustee has no right to of the disabilities of trustees remuneration for his trouble, skill, and loss of time in executing the trust. trustee cannot 48. a trustee who has accepted the trust renounce after cannot afterwards renounce it, except— (2) nothing in this section shall be deemed acceptance. to prejudice the right of any resident trustee (a) with the permission of the court ; or actually managing the daily administration of any religious foundation, in respect of which (b) if the beneficiary is competent to the remuneration of the trustee shall not have contract, with his consent; or been settled under section 108, to such (c•) by virtue of a special power in the remuneration as has been in practice instrument of trust. received : trustee cannot 49. a trustee cannot delegate his office or provided that such remuneration shall in delegate. any of his duties either to a co-trustee or to a no case exceed ten per centum of the gross stranger, unless— income of the foundation. iv/215 cap.96] trusts trustee may 53. a trustee may not use or deal with the gross amount to him. a on attaining not use trust the trust property for his own profit or for majority may. as the person exclusively property for any other purpose unconnected with the interested in the trust property, require the his own profit. trustees to transfer it immediately to him. trust. (b) a bequeaths rs. 10,000 to trustees upon trust to trustee for sale 54. no trustee whose duty it is to sell purchase an annuity for b. who has attained or his agent trust property, and no agent employed by his majority and is otherwise competent to may not buy. such trustee for the purpose of the sale may, contract. b may claim the rs. 10.000. directly or indirectly, buy the same or any (c) a transfers certain properly to b and directs him interest therein on his own account or as to sell or invest it for the benefit of c, who is agent for a third person. competent to contract, c may elect to take the property in its original character. trustee may 55. no trustee, and no person who has not buy recently ceased to be a trustee, may, without 59. the beneficiary has a right, as right to beneficiary's against the trustee and all persons claiming inspect and the permission of the court, buy or become interest under him with notice of the trust, to take copies of without mortgagee or lessee of the trust property or instrument of permission. any part thereof ; and such permission shall inspect and take copies of the instrument of trust, accounts, trust, the documents of title relating solely &c. not be given unless the proposed purchase, to the trust property, the accounts of the mortgage, or lease is manifestly for the trust property and the vouchers (if any) by advantage of the beneficiary, which they are supported, and the cases trustee for and no trustee whose duty it is to buy or submitted and opinions taken by the trustee purchase. to obtain a mortgage or lease of particular for his guidance in the discharge of his duty. property for 'the beneficiary may buy it or any part thereof, or obtain a mortgage or 60. the beneficiary, if competent to right to lease of it or any part thereof for himself. contract, may transfer his interest, but transfer , , , . , . , . . „ beneficial subject to the law for the time being in force interest. co-trustees 56. a trustee or co-trustee whose duty it as to the circumstances and extent in and to may not lend is to invest trust money on mortgage or which he may dispose of such interest. to one of personal security must not invest it on a themselves. mortgage by, or on the personal security of, 61. when no trustees are appointed, or right to sue himself or one of his co-trustees. all the trustees die, disclaim, or are for execution of trust. discharged, or where for any other reason the execution of a trust by the trustee is or chapter vi becomes impracticable, the beneficiary may of the rights and liabilities institute a suit for the execution of the trust, of the beneficiary and the trust shall, so far as may be possible, be executed by the court until the right to rents 57. the beneficiary has, subject to the appointment of a trustee or new trustee, or and profits. provisions of the instrument of trust, a right until the execution of the trust becomes to the rents and profits of the trust property. practicable. right to 58. the beneficiary is entitled to have 62. subject to the provisions of the right to specific the intention of the author of the trust instrument of trust, the beneficiary has aproper trustees. execution. specifically executed to the extent of the right to require that the trust property shall beneficiary's interest. be properly protected and held and administered by proper persons and by a right to and, where there is only one beneficiary transfer of and he is competent to contract, or where proper number of such persons. , possession. there are several beneficiaries and they are competent to contract, and all of one mind, explanation /.—the following are not proper he or they may require the trustee to * persons within the meaning of this section:-- an alien enemy ; a person having an interest transfer the trust property to him or them, inconsistent with that of the beneficiary : a or lo such person as he or they may direct. person in insolvent circumstances ; a minor. illustrations explanation 2.—when the administration of the (a) certain government securities are given to trust involves the receipt and custody of trustees upon trust to accumulate the interest money, the number of trustees should be two until a attains majority, and then to transfer at least. iv/216 trusts [cap.96 illustrations (a) account for the net profits of the property, (a) a. one of several beneficiaries, proves that b. the trustee, has improperly disposed of part of the (b) be charged with an occupation rent if trust property. or that the property is in he has been in actual possession of danger from b's being in insolvent circumstances. or that he is incapacitated the property, and from acting as trustee. a may obtain a receiver of the trust properly. (c) allow the beneficiary to deduct a proportionate part of the purchase (b) a bequeaths certain jewels to b in trust for c. b money if the property has been dies during a's lifetime ; then a dies. c is deteriorated by the acts or omissions entitled !o have the property conveyed to .1 trustee for him. of the trustee or purchaser. (c•) a conveys certain properly to four trustee.- in trust (2) nothing in this section— for b. three of the trustees die. b may institute a suit to have three new trustees (a) impairs the rights of lessees and appointed in the place of the deceased others who, before the institution of trustees, a suit to have the property declared (d) a conveys certain property to three trustees in subject to the trust or re-transferred, trust for b. all the trustees disclaim. b may have contracted in good faith with institute a suit to have three trustees appointed in place . of the trustees so the trustee or purchaser ; or disclaiming. (b) entitles the beneficiary to have the (e') a. a trustee for b. refuses to act. or is declared an property declared subject to the trust insolvent, or compounds with his creditors, or suffers a co-trustee to commit a breach of or re-transferred where he, being trust. b may institute a suit to have a competent to contract, has himself. removed and a new trustee appointed in his without duress or undue influence room. having been brought to bear on him, right 10 63. the beneficiary has a right to require ratified the sale to the trustee with compel to that his trustee shall be compelled to perform full knowledge of the facts of the perform any act any particular act of his duly as such, case and of his rights as against the of duty and restrained from committing any trustee. contemplated or probable breach of trust. 65. (i) where trust property comes into following trust illustrations the hands of a third person inconsistently properly into ... i i i" - • - the hands of (a) a contracts with b to pay him monthly rs. 100 for with the trust, the beneficiary may institute a third persons - the benefit of c. b writes and signs a letter suit for a declaration that the property is into that into declaring thai he will hold in trust tor c the comprised in the trust. which it has money so 10 be paid, a fails to pay the money been converted. in accordance with his contract- c may (2) where the trustee has disposed of trust compel b on a proper indemnity to allow c to property, and the money or other property sue on the contract in b's name. which he has received therefor can be traced (b) a is trustee of certain land. with a power to sell the in his hands or the hands of his legal same and pay the proceeds to b and c representative or legatee, the beneficiary has, equally. a is about to make an improvident in respect thereof, rights as nearly as may be sale of the land. b may sue on behalf of himself and c for an injunction to restrain a the same as his rights in respect of the from making the sale. original trust property. wrongful 64. (1) where a trustee has wrongfully illustrations purchase by bought trust property, the beneficiary has a trustee. {a) a. a trustee for b of rs. 10,000 wrongfully invests right to have the property declared subject to the rs. 10.000 in the purchase of certain land. the trust, or re-transferred by the trustee if it b is entitled to the land. remains in his hands unsold, or, if it has been (b) a. a trustee, wrongfully purchases land in his own bought from him by any person with notice of name. partly with his own money, partly with the trust, by such person. but in such case the money subject to a trust for b. b is entitled to beneficiary must repay the purchase money a charge on the land for the amount of the paid by the trustee, with interest and such trust money so misemployed, other expenses (if any) as he has properly 66. (1) nothing in section 65 entitles the saving of rights incurred in the preservation of the property ; beneficiary to any right in respect of property of certain and the trustee or purchaser must— i•n t.1h- e hi- andj s ofe— ' transferees. iv/217 cap.96] trusts (a) a transferee in good faith for retains all the assets in the business. 1 may consideration without having notice compel him, as partner, to account for so much of the profits as arc derived from a's of the trust, either when the share of the capital. b is also answerable to purchase money was paid, or when z for the improper employment of a's the conveyance was executed ; or assets. (b) ii transferee for consideration from (a) a, a trader, bequeaths his property to b in trust such a transferee. for c, appoints b his sole executor, and dies. b enters into partnership with x and y in (2) a judgment-creditor of the trustee the same trade, and employs a's assets in the partnership business. b gives an indemnity to attaching and purchasing trust property is x and y against the claims of c. here x and not a transferee for consideration within the y arc jointly liable with b to c as having meaning of this section. knowingly become parlies to the breach of trust committed by b. (3) nothing in section 65 applies to 70. where one of several beneficiaries liability of money or currency notes in the hands of a being competent to contract— beneficiary bona fide holder to whom they have passed joining on in circulation, or to negotiable instruments (a) joins in committing a breach of breach of trust. in the hands of a bona fide holder tor value, trust ; or or shall be deemed to affect sections 22 and 23 of the sale of goods ordinance, or the (b) knowingly obtains .any advantage rights of any holder in good faith for therefrom without the consent of consideration of any document of title which the other beneficiaries ; or by law passes the ownership of goods to (c) becomes aware of a breach of trust which it relates by endorsement or delivery, committed or intended to be or the liability of a person to whom a debt committed, and either actually or charge is transferred, or the right of a conceals it, or does not within a person who holds property under a title reasonable time take proper steps to declared indefeasible by statute or of his protect the interests of the other successor in title. beneficiaries ; or acquisition by 67. where a trustee wrongfully sells or (d/) has deceived the trustee and thereby trustee of trust otherwise transfers trust property and property induced him to commit a breach of afterwards himself becomes the owner of the wrongfully trust, converted- property, the property again becomes subject to the trust, notwithstanding any the other beneficiaries are entitled to have want of notice on the part of intervening all his beneficial interest impounded as transferees in good faith for consideration. against him and all who claim under him right in case 68. where the trustee wrongfully (otherwise than as transferees for of blended mingles the trust property with his own, the consideration without notice of the breach) property. until the loss caused by the breach has been beneficiary is entitled to a charge on the compensated. whole fund for the amount due to him. wrongful 69. if a partner, being a trustee, 71. every person to whom a beneficiary rights and employment by wrongfully employs trust property in the transfers his interests has the rights, and is liabilities of partner trustee beneficiary's business or on the account of the subject to the liabilities, of the beneficiary in of trust , transferee. property for partnership, no other partner is liable respect of such interest at the date of the partnership therefor in his personal capacity to the transfer. purposes. beneficiaries unless he had notice of the breach of trust. the partners having such chapter vii notice are jointly and severally liable for the, breach of trust. . of vacating the office of trustee illustrations 72. the office of a trustee is vacated by office how his death or by his discharge from his office. vacated. (a) a and b are partners. a dies, having bequeathed all his properly to b in trust for z, and 73. a trustee may be discharged from discharge of appointed b his sole executor. b, instead of his office only as follows :— trustee. winding up the affairs of the partnership, iv/218