trusts [cap.
96 property 93.
where a person- acquires property this ordinance otherwise provided, is acquired with with notice that another person has entered subject, so far as may be, to the same notice of into an existing contract affecting that liabilities and disabilities, as if he were a existing contract.
property, of which specific performance trustee of the property for the person for could be enforced, the former must hold the whose benefit he holds it: property for the benefit of the latter to the provided that— extent necessary to give effect to the contract: (a) where he rightfully cultivates the property or employs it in trade or provided that in the case of a contract business, he is entitled to reasonable affecting immovable property, such contract remuneration for his trouble, skill, shall have been duly registered before such and loss of time in such cultivation acquisition.
or employment; and purchase by 94.
where a person contracts to buy person property to be held on trust for certain (b) where he holds the property by virtue contracting to of a contract with a person for beneficiaries and buys the property buy property .
whose benefit he holds it, or with to be held on accordingly, he must hold the property for trust.
their benefit to the extent necessary to give anyone through whom such person claims, he may, without the effect to the contract.
permission of the court, buy or advantage 95.
where creditors compound the debts become lessee or mortgagee of the secretly gained due to them, and one of such creditors, by a property or any part thereof.
by one of secret arrangement with the debtor, gains an several compounding undue advantage over his co-creditors, he 98.
nothing contained in this chapter saving rights creditors.
must hold for the benefit of such creditors shall impair the rights of transferees in good of bona fide purchasers.
faith for valuable consideration, or create an the advantage so gained.
obligation in evasion of any law for the time constructive 96.
in any case not coming within the being in force.
trusts in cases scope of any of the preceding sections not expressly where there is no trust, but the person chapter x provided for.
having possession of property has not the charitable trusts whole beneficial interest therein, he must hold the property for the benefit of the 99.
(1) the expression " charitable special persons having such interest, or the residue trust " includes any trust for the benefit of "definitions.
thereof (as the case may be), to the extent the public or any section of the public necessary to satisfy their just demands.
within or without sri lanka of any of the following categories :— illustrations (a) for the relief of poverty ; or (a) a, an executor, distributes the assets of his testator b to the legatees without having (b) for the advancement of education or paid the whole of b's debts.
the legatees knowledge ; or hold for the benefit of b's creditors, to the extent necessary to satisfy their just (c) for the advancement of religion or the demands, the assets so distributed.
maintenance of religious rites and (b) a by mistake assumes the character of a trustee practices ; or for b, and under colour of the trust receives certain money.
b may compel him to (d) for any other purposes beneficial or of account for such moneys.
interest to mankind not falling (c) a makes a gift of a lakh of rupees to b, within the preceding categories.
reserving to himself, with b's assent, power to revoke at pleasure the gift as to rs.
(2) the expression " adaptation " with 10,000, the gift is revoked by a as to rs.
reference to a trust means adaptation of the 10,000 and b thereupon holds that sum for "trust in such a manner as to carry out the the benefit of a. wishes of the author of the trust as nearly as obligor's 97.
the person holding property in practicable, according to the doctrine of duties, accordance with any of the preceding cypres, where it is not possible to carry out liabilities, and sections of this chapter must, so far as may those wishes in the exact manner prescribed disabilities.
be, perform the same duties, and, save as in by the instrument of trust.
1v/223 cap.
96] trusts (3) the expression " settlement of a for the purpose of invoking the assistance of scheme " includes variation of a scheme the court for the better securing of the .previously settled.
objects of the trust, or for regulating its administration or the succession to the (4) the expression " place of religious trusteeship, and upon any such application resort " includes the establishments the court may make such order as it may commonly known as " madams " or deem equitable. "
chat trams ".
(3) for the purpose of any proceeding general powers 100.
the court shall have the same under this section with respect to any of the court.
power for the establishment, regulation, religious trust, regard shall be had to the protection, and adaptation of all statutory or other powers belonging to, or " charitable trusts " (as defined by this customarily exercised by, the authorities of ordinance) as are exercised for the time any religious body or society concerned in being with reference to " charitable trusts " the administration of the trust.
within the meaning of english law by the high court of justice in england.
(4) this section shall not apply to trusts governed by the next succeeding section.
actions for 101.
(1) in case of any alleged breach of carrying into any express or constructive charitable trust, 102. (1) subject to the conditions of suits by effect trusts for or whenever the direction of the court is subsection (3) hereof, any five persons persons public charity.
interested in deemed necessary for the administration of interested in any place of worship, or in any religious trusts- any such trust, the attorney-general acting religious establishment or place of religious ex officio.
or two or more persons having an resort, or in the performance of the worship interest in the trust, and having obtained the or of the service thereof, or in the trusts, consent in writing of the attorney-general, express or constructive, relating thereto, may institute an action in the court within may, without joining as plaintiff any of the the local limits of whose civil jurisdiction other persons interested, institute an action the whole or any part of the subject-matter in the court within the local limits of whose of the trust is held or situate to obtain a civil jurisdiction any such place or decree— establishment is situate, or if such place is situate outside sri lanka, and the action is (a) removing any trustees or trustee of the instituted with respect to immovable charity and, if necessary, appointing property situate within sri lanka, in the new trustees thereof; court having local jurisdiction, to obtain a decree— (b) directing accounts and inquiries ; (a) settling a scheme for the management (c) declaring what proportion of the trust of the trusts thereof ; property or of the interest therein shall be allocated to any particular (b) vesting any property in the trustees ; object of the trust; (c) enumerating the properties comprised (d) authorizing the whole or any part of in the trust, or declaring that any the trust property to be let, sold, property is trust property mortgaged, or exchanged ; - comprised in the trust ; (e) settling a scheme for the management (d) directing accounts and inquiries ; of the trust ; (e) declaring what proportion of the trust (f) granting such further or other relief as property or of any interest therein the nature of the case may require.
- shall be allocated to any particular object of the trust; (2) nothing contained in this or the next succeeding section shall be deemed to (f) - declaring any trustee, manager, or preclude the trustee or author of any superintendent of such place or charitable trust from applying to the court establishment, or member of any by action or otherwise for such direction or committee of management, guilty of relief as he may be entitled to obtain under any misfeasance, breach of trust, or the general provisions of this ordinance, or neglect of duty ; iv/224 trusts [cap.96 (g) awarding damages and costs "against (a) that the subject-matter of the plaint is any such trustee, manager, one that calls for the consideration superintendent, or member of a of the court ; and committee in respect of any such misfeasance, breach of trust, or (b) either that it has not proved possible neglect of duty ; to bring about an amicable settlement of the questions (h) directing the removal of any trustee, involved, or that the assistance of manager, superintendent, or the court is required for the purpose member of a committee, and, if of giving effect to any amicable necessary, directing the settlement that has been arrived at. appointment of any new trustee, manager, superintendent, or (4) it shall be the duty of the government member of a committee ; agent, in any case in which he shall have (i) directing the specific performance of good reason to believe that the persons any act by any trustee* manager, presenting such petition or any five of them superintendent, or member of a are persons interested within the meaning of committee ; subsection (2) of this section, for which purpose he may require to be satisfied by (j) granting such further or other relief as affidavit or otherwise, to appoint for the the nature of the case may require.
purposes of the inquiry a commissioner or (2) the interest required in order to commissioners whom he may consider to be entitle a person to sue under this section a person or persons of acknowledged need not be a pecuniary or immediate standing and repute in the general or local interest, or such an interest as would entitle religious community concerned , the person suing to take any part in the management or superintendence of the provided that the government agent may trust.
any person who is connected with the appoint himself as the commissioner or as trust as donor, or by family or hereditary one of the commissioners ; interests, or who for a period of not less than twelve months has been in the habit of provided further, that the government attending at the performance of the worship agent may require the petitioners to deposit or services of, or connected with, the place with him an amount sufficient to cover the or establishment in question, or of reasonable expenses of the commissioner or contributing to the general or any special commissioners in respect of travelling expenses incidental to such worship or expenses and subsistence incidental to the services, or of partaking in the benefit of inquiry prayed for and any such costs any distribution of alms thereat, or in certified by.the government agent to have connection therewith, or of otherwise been properly incurred for the purposes of enjoying the benefit of the trust, shall be the inquiry and to have been duly paid shall deemed to be a person interested within the be deemed to be costs in the action.
meaning of this section.
(3) no action shall be entertained under (5) it shall be the duty of any this section unless the plaintiffs shall have commissioner or commissioners appointed previously presented a petition to the for the purpose of any such inquiry to government agent of the administrative render a report in terms of subsection (3) district in which such place or hereof within such time as shall be specified establishment is situate praying for the for the purpose by the government agent, appointment of a . commissioner or or within such further time as he may from commissioners to inquire into the subject- time to time authorize.
matter of the plaint, and unless the government agent shall have certified that (6) the report shall be filed in the office an inquiry has been held in pursuance of the of the government agent, and the said petition, and that the commissioner or petitioners and the trustee shall be entitled, commissioners (or a majority of them) has on payment of the usual copying charges, to reported— be furnished with a copy thereof.
iv/225