trusts [cap. 96 such order in writing shall have been given any trust for the purpose of any public or by or on behalf of the person in whom the private association (not being an association property is vested under the order to the for the purpose of gain), a method for the person or authority in charge of the register appointment of new trustees is prescribed in or book in which such stocks, shares, or the instrument of trust (other than securities, as the case may be, are entered, nomination in the manner referred to in and upon such notice in writing being given, paragraph (a) of section 75), or by any rule and on reasonable proof being furnished in force, or in the absence of any such that such stocks, shares, or securities form prescribed method is established by custom, part of the said trust property, the person in then upon any new trustee being appointed whom the property is vested under the order in accordance with such prescribed or shall be entitled to a transfer into his name customary method, and upon the execution of any such stocks, shares, or securities, and of the memorandum referred to in the next to the receipt of all dividends, interest, or succeeding subsection, the trust property other sums due, or to become due, in shall become vested without any respect of any such stocks, shares, or conveyance, vesting order, or other securities. assurance in such new trustee and the old continuing trustees jointly, or if there are no (5) in all cases in which a vesting order old continuing trustees, in such new trustee can be made under this section the court wholly. may, if it is more convenient, appoint a person to transfer the property, and a (3) every appointment under the last transfer by that person in conformity with preceding subsection shall be made to the order shall have the same effect as an appear by a memorandum under the hand order under this section, and every person of the person presiding at the meeting, or so appointed for the purposes of all other proceeding at which the appointment transactions, proceedings, and formalities was made, and attested by two other incidental to the said transfer shall have all persons present at the said meeting or the powers and capacities of the trustee or proceeding. every such memorandum shall other person in whom the trust property be notarially executed. was vested, and shall be deemed to be the duly authorized attorney of such trustee or (4) it shall be the duty of the registrar- other person for the purposes aforesaid. general to prepare and maintain special registers of trustees appointed under dcvolution of 113. (i) where, whether before or after subsection (2) of this section, and it shall be trust properly. the commencement of this ordinance, it is the duty of every notary before whom any declared or intended in any instrument of such memorandum is attested to forward to trust that the trustee of the trust shall be a the prescribed officer for the purpose of person for the time being holding or acting such registers all such particulars with in any public office, or holding or acting in reference to such memorandum as may be any office or discharging any duty in any prescribed by rules made under the notaries public or private institution, body, ordinance. corporation, association, or community, or where any property comes into or is in the (5) all rules made in pursuance of the last possession or ownership of any such person preceding subsection shall apply to notaries in any of the aforesaid capacities upon any who are attorneys-at-law in the same constructive trust, the title to the trust manner as to other notaries, anything in property shall devolve from time to time section 36 of the notaries ordinance, to the upon the person for the time being holding contrary notwithstanding. or acting in any such office, or discharging 114. the minister may, in his discretion, incorporation such duly, without any conveyance, vesting by order, on the application of the trustees of trustees. order, or other assurance otherwise of any charitable trust or of any public or necessary for vesting the property in such private association (not being an association person. for the purposes of gain), authorize the (2) where, whether before or after the incorporation of the said trustees, and upon commencement of this ordinance, in the the publication of the said order, the said case of any charitable trust, or in the case of trustees of the charity or association and iv/229 cap. 96] trusts their successors for the time being shall be 116. (1) all actions and other procedure. constituted a corporation under such style proceedings under this ordinance shall be and subject to such conditions as may be governed by the enactments and rules specified in the order. relating to civil procedure for the time being in force. persons may 115. any person shall have power to assign property assign and convey movable and immovable in trust to (2) the judges of the supreme court may property, now by law assignable, directly to themselves and make rules regulating the procedure to be others. himself and another person, or other observed in all proceedings under this persons or corporation, by the like means as ordinance in respect of all matters for he might assign or convey the same to which no provision is made by such another. and no transfer or assignment of enactments and rules, and pending the movable or immovable property heretofore making of such rules, such procedure shall made or executed by a person to himself be followed as shall be directed by the court, and another person or persons or corporation shall be deemed to be in any (3) all petitions presented in any court in manner invalid by reason of its being a any proceeding under this ordinance shall transfer or assignment by a person to bear a stamp of ten rupees. himself and another person or persons or corporation : 117. if the court shall be of opinion, at costs. provided that nothing in this section the termination of any suit instituted with contained shall give any validity to any reference to any trust, that the suit has been assignment or conveyance which would for the benefit of the trust, and that no have been heretofore by any law or custom party to the suit ought to be made invalid by any other reason than by reason responsible for the whole of the costs, the of its being an assignment or conveyance by court may order the costs of such portion as a person to himself and any other person or it may consider just to be paid out of the persons or corporation. trust property - iv/230