cap.96] trusts (d) a bequeaths certain property to b, desiring him illustrations to divide the bulk of it among c's children.
this does not create a trust, for the trust (a) a bequeaths certain property to b and c.
his property is not indicated with sufficient executors, as trustees for d. b and c prove .
certainty.
a's will.
this is in itself an acceptance of the trust, and b and c hold the properly in trust (e) a bequeaths a shop and stock in trade to b, on ford.
condition that he pays a's debts and a legacy to c. this is a condition, not a trust, for a's (b) a transfers certain property to b in trust to sell il creditors and c. and to pay out of the proceeds a's debts- b accepts the trust and sells the property.
so who may 7.
a trust may be created- far as regards b, a trust of the proceeds is create trusts.
created for a's creditors.
(a) by every person competent to contract ; and (c) a bequeaths a lakh of rupees to b upon certain trusts and appoints him his executor.
b (b) with the permission of the court by severs the lakh from the general assets and or on behalf of a minor ; appropriates it 10 the specific purpose.
this is an acceptance of the trust.
but subject in each case to the law for the time being in force as to the circumstances chapter iii and extent in and to which the author of the trust may dispose of the trust property.
of the duties and liabilities of trustees subject of 8.
the subject-matter of a trust must be trust.
property transferable to the beneficiary.
it 11.
(i) the trustee is bound to fulfil the trustee to must not be a merely beneficial interest purpose of the trust, and to obey the execute trust.
under a subsisting trust.
directions of the author of the trust given at the time of its creation, except as modified who may be 9. (1) every person capable of holding by the consent of all the beneficiaries being beneficiary.
property may be a beneficiary.
competent to contract, disclaimer by (2) a proposed beneficiary may renounce (2) where the beneficiary is incompetent beneficiary.
his interest under the trust by disclaimer to contract, his consent may, for the addressed to the trustee, or by setting up, purposes of this section, be given by the with notice of the trust, a claim inconsistent court.
therewith.
explanation.—unless a contrary intention be who may be 10.
(1) every person capable of holding expressed, the purpose of a trust for the trustee.
property may be a trustee ; but, where the payment of debts shall be deemed to be— trust involves the exercise of discretion, he (a) to pay only the debts of the author of the trust cannot execute it unless he is competent to existing and recoverable at the date of the contract.
instrument of trust, or, when such instrument is a will, at the date of his death, and no one bound (2) no one is bound to accept a trust.
(b) in the case of debts not bearing interest, to make to accept trust.
such payment without interest.
acceptance of (3) a trust is accepted by any words or illustrations trust.
acts of the trustee indicating with reasonable (a) a, a trustee, is simply authorized to sell certain certainty such acceptance.
land by public auction- he cannot sell the land by private contract.
disclaimer of (4) instead of accepting a trust, the trust.
intended trustee may, within a reasonable (b).a, a trustee of certain land for x, y, and z, is authorized to sell the land to b for a specified period, disclaim it, and such disclaimer shall sum.
x, y, and z, being competent to ' prevent the trust property from vesting in contract, consent that a may sell the land to him.
c for a less sum.
a may sell the land accordingly.
(5) a disclaimer by one of two or more (c) a, a trustee for b and her children, is directed by co-trustees vests the trust property in the the author of the trust to lend, on b's request, other or others, and makes him or them sole trust property to b's husband c, on the security of his bond.
c becomes insolvent, and trustee or trustees from the date of the b requests a to make the loan- a may refuse creation of the trust.
to make il.
iv/208 trusts [cap.96 trustee to 12.
a trustee is bound to acquaint (b) a, a trustee of leasehold property, directs the inform himself himself, as soon as possible, with the nature tenant to pay the rents, on account of the of state of trust and circumstances of the trust property ; to trust to a banker, b, then in credit.
the rents property.
are accordingly paid to b, and a leaves the obtain, where necessary, a transfer of the money with b only till wanted.
before the trust property to himself; and (subject to money is drawn out, b becomes insolvent.
a, the provisions of the instrument of trust) to having had no reason to believe that b was get in trust moneys invested on insufficient in insolvent circumstances, is not bound to or hazardous security.
make good the loss.
(c) a, a trustee of two debts for b, releases one and illustrations compounds the other, in good faith, and reasonably believing that it is for b's interest ' (a) the trust property is a debt outstanding on to do so.
a is not bound to make good any personal security.
the instrument of trust loss caused thereby to b. gives the trustee no discretionary power to leave the debt so outstanding.
the trustee's (d) a, a trustee directed to sell the trust property by duly is to recover the de:bt without auction, sells the same, but does not unnecessary delay.
advertise the sale, and otherwise fails in reasonable diligence in inviting competition.
(b) the trust property is money in the hands of one a is bound to make good the loss caused or two co-trustees.
no discretionary power is thereby to the beneficiary.
given by the instrument of trust.
the other co-trustee must not allow the former to (e) a, a trustee for b, in execution of his trust, sells retain the money for a longer period than the the trust property, but from want of due circumstances of the case required.
diligence on his part fails to receive part of the purchase money.
a is bound to make trustee to 13.
a trustee is bound to maintain and good the loss thereby caused to b. protect title to defend all such suits, and (subject to the trust property.
provisions of the instrument of trust) to take (f) a, a trustee for b of a policy of insurance, has such other steps as, regard being had to the funds in band for payment of the premiums.
nature and amount or value of the trust a neglects to pay the premiums, and the property, may be reasonably requisite for policy is consequently forfeited.
a is bound to make good the loss to b.
the preservation of the trust property and the assertion or protection of the.
title (g•) a bequeaths certain moneys to b and c as thereto.
.trustees, and authorizes them to continue .
trust moneys upon the personal security of a illustration certain firm in which a had himself invested • : them.
a dies.
and a change takes place in the the trust property is immovable property, which has firm.
b and c must not permit the moneys to been given to the author of the trust by an remain upon the personal security of the new unregistered instrument.
the trustee's duty is firm.
to cause the instrument to be registered.
trustee not lo 14.
the trustee must not for himself or (h) a.
a trustee for b. allows the trust to be executed set up title another set up or aid any title to the trust solely by his co-trustee c, c misapplies the adverse to property adverse to the interest of the trust properly.
a is personally answerable beneficiary.
.for the loss resulting to b. beneficiary.
care required 15.
a trustee is bound, subject to the 16.
whe.re t he trust is created for the conversion of from trustee.
provisions of the instrument of trust, to deal benefit of several persons in succession, and perishable with the trust property as carefully as a man the trust property is of a wasting nature or a property of ordinary prudence would deal with such future or reversionary interest, the trustee is property if it were his own ; and, in the bound, unless an intention to the contrary absence of a contract to the contrary, a may be inferred from the instrument of trustee so dealing is not responsible for the trust, or unless the court otherwise directs, loss, destruction, or deterioration of the to convert the property into property of a trust property.
permanent and immediately profitable character.
iliusiraiions (a) a. living in colombo, is a trustee for b. living in 17.
(i)
wheere there are more trustee to be london.
a remits trust funds to b_ by bills beneficiaries than one, the trustee is bound impartial drawn by a person of undoubted credit in to be impartial,, and must not execute the favour of the trustee as such and payable at trust for the advantage of one at the expense london.
the bills are dishonoured.
a is not of another.
bound to make go.od the loss, iv/209 cap.96] trusts (2) where the trustee has a discretionary (d) on any other security expressly power, nothing in this section shall be deemed authorized by the instrument of trust to authorize the court to control the exercise or by any rule which the minister reasonably and in good faith of such may from time to time prescribe in discretion.. that behalf.
illustration 21.
nothing in section 20 shall apply to saving as to investments made before the commencement existing a, a trustee for b, c, and d, is empowered to choose investments and of this ordinance, or shall be deemed to between several specified modes of investing investments in the trust property.
a in good faith chooses one preclude a deposit of trust money in a government of these modes.
the court will not interfere, government savings bank or in the national savings bank although the result of the choice may be to savings bank.
or national savings bank.
vary the relative rights of b, c, and d.
[§2.7 of 1968.] trustees to 18. where the trust is created for the [§89,30 of 1971.]
prevent waste, benefit of several persons in succession, and one of them is in possession of the trust 22.
where a trustee directed to sell within sale by trustee a specified time extends such time, the burden directed to sell property, if he commits, or threatens to within specified of proving, as between himself and the commit, any act which is destructive or time.
beneficiary, that the latter is not prejudiced by permanently injurious thereto, the trustee is the extension lies upon the trustee, unless the bound to take measures to prevent such act.
extension has been authorized by the court.
accounts and 19.
a trustee is bound— information.
illustration (a) to keep clear and accurate accounts of the trust property, and a bequeaths property to b, directing him with all convenient speed and within five years to sell (b) at all reasonable times, at the request of it, and apply the proceeds for the benefit of c. in the exercise of reasonable discretion, b the beneficiary, to furnish him with postpones the sale for six years.
the sale is not full and accurate information as to thereby rendered invalid, but c, alleging thai the amount and state of the trust he has been injured by the postponement, property.
institutes a suit against b to obtain compensation.
in such suit the burden of investment of 20. where the trust property consists of proving that c has not been injured lies on b. trust money, money and cannot be applied immediately or 23.
(1) where the trustee commits a liability for at an early date to the purposes of the trust, breach of trust, he is liable to make good the breach of trust- the trustee is bound (subject to any direction loss which the trust property or the contained in the instrument of trust) to invest beneficiary has thereby sustained, unless the the money on the following securities, and on beneficiary has by fraud induced the trustee to no others :— commit the breach, or the beneficiary, being competent to contract, has himself, without (a) in promissory notes, debentures, stock, duress or undue influence having been or other securities of the government brought to bear on him, concurred in the of sri lanka ; breach, or subsequently acquiesced therein with full knowledge of the facts of the case (b) on a first mortgage of immovable and of his rights as against the trustee.
property situated in sri lanka ; (2) a trustee committing a breach of trust is provided that the property is not a not liable to pay interest except in the leasehold for a term of years, and following cases :— that the value of the property exceeds by one-third, or if consisting wholly (a) where he has actually received or mainly of buildings, exceeds by interest ; one-half the mortgage moneys; •(b) where the breach consists in unreasonable delay in paying trust (c) in promissory notes, debentures, stock money to the beneficiary ; or other securities issued by a, government corporation, institution (c) where the trustee ought to have or agency and guaranteed by the received interest, but has not done government of sri lanka ; so : iv/210 trusts [cap.
96 (d) where he may be fairly presumed to compound interest, or with the amount of have received interest; such securities as he might have purchased with the trust money when the investment (e) where the breach consists in failure to should have been made, together with the invest trust money and to accumulate amount of the accumulation which would have arisen from a proper investment of the the interest or dividend thereon, he is intermediate dividends.
liable to account for compound interest (with half-yearly rests) at the (g) trust property is invested in one of the securities mentioned in section 20, clause (a), (c), or ((d).
same rate ; the trustee sells such security for some purpose not authorized by the terms of the (f) where the breach consists in the instrument of trust.
he is liable, at the option employment of trust property or the of the beneficiary, either to replace the security proceeds thereof in trade or business, with the intermediate dividends and interest he is liable to account, at the option thereon, or to account for the proceeds of the of the beneficiary, either for sale with interest thereon.
compound interest (with half-yearly (h) the trust property consists of land.
the trustee sells rests) at the same rate or for the net the land to a purchaser for a consideration profits made by such employment.
without notice of the trust.
the trustee is liable, at the option of the beneficiary, to (3) he is liable in case (a) to account for the purchase other land of equal value to be interest actually received, and in cases (b), (c), settled upon the like trust, or to be charged with the proceeds of the sale with interest.
and (d) to account for simple interest at the rate of six per centum per annum, unless the 24.
a trustee who is liable for a loss no set-off court otherwise directs.
occasioned by a breach of trust in respect of allowed to trustee one portion of the trust property cannot set illustrations off against his liability a gain which has accrued to another portion of the trust (a) a trustee improperly leaves trust property outstanding, and it is consequently lost ; he is property through another and distinct breach liable tomake good the property lost, but he is of trust.
not liable to pay interest thereon.
25.
where a trustee succeeds another, he non-liability for (b) a bequeaths a house to b in trust to sell it and pay is not, as such, liable for the acts or defaults predecessor's the proceeds to c. b neglects to sell the house default.
of his predecessor.
for a great length of time, whereby the house is deteriorated and its market price falls.
b is 26.
(1) subject to the provisions of non-liability for answerable to c for the loss.
sections 13 and 15, one trustee is not, as such, co-trustee's (c) a trustee is guilty of unreasonable delay in investing liable for a breach of trust committed by his default.
trust money in accordance with section 20, or co-trustee : in paying it to the beneficiary.
the trustee is liable to pay interest thereon for the period of provided that, in the absence of an express the delay; declaration to the contrary in the instrument (d) the duty of the trustee is to invest trust money in of trust, a trustee is so liable— any of the securities mentioned in section 20.
instead of so doing, he retains the money in (a) where he has delivered trust property to his hands.
he is liable, at the option of the his co-trustee without seeing to its beneficiary, to be charged either with the proper application ; amount of the principal money and interest, or with the amount of such securities as he might (b) where he allows his co-trustee to receive have purchased with the trust money when the investment should have been made, and the trust property and fails to make due intermediate dividends and interest thereon.
inquiry as to the co-trustee's dealings (e) the instrument of trust directs the trustee to invest therewith, or allows him to retain it trust money either in any such securities or on longer than the circumstances of the mortgage of immovable property.
the trustee case reasonably require ; does neither.
he is liable for the principal money and interest.
(c) where he becomes aware of a breach of (f) the instrument of trust directs the trustee to invest trust committed or intended by his trust money in any of such securities and to co-trustee, and either actively accumulate the dividends thereon.
the trustee conceals it, or does not within a disregards the direction.
he is liable at the reasonable time take proper steps to option of the beneficiary, to be charged either protect the beneficiary's interest.
with the amount of the principal money and 1v/211