cap. 96] trusts their successors for the time being shall be 116. (1) all actions and other procedure. constituted a corporation under such style proceedings under this ordinance shall be and subject to such conditions as may be governed by the enactments and rules specified in the order. relating to civil procedure for the time being in force. persons may 115. any person shall have power to assign property assign and convey movable and immovable in trust to (2) the judges of the supreme court may property, now by law assignable, directly to themselves and make rules regulating the procedure to be others. himself and another person, or other observed in all proceedings under this persons or corporation, by the like means as ordinance in respect of all matters for he might assign or convey the same to which no provision is made by such another. and no transfer or assignment of enactments and rules, and pending the movable or immovable property heretofore making of such rules, such procedure shall made or executed by a person to himself be followed as shall be directed by the court, and another person or persons or corporation shall be deemed to be in any (3) all petitions presented in any court in manner invalid by reason of its being a any proceeding under this ordinance shall transfer or assignment by a person to bear a stamp of ten rupees. himself and another person or persons or corporation : 117. if the court shall be of opinion, at costs. provided that nothing in this section the termination of any suit instituted with contained shall give any validity to any reference to any trust, that the suit has been assignment or conveyance which would for the benefit of the trust, and that no have been heretofore by any law or custom party to the suit ought to be made invalid by any other reason than by reason responsible for the whole of the costs, the of its being an assignment or conveyance by court may order the costs of such portion as a person to himself and any other person or it may consider just to be paid out of the persons or corporation. trust property - iv/230