cap. 96] trusts bequest for 87. (1) where a testator bequeaths (c) a, a partner, buys land in his own name with illegal purpose. certain property upon trust, and the purpose funds belonging to the partnership. a holds such land for the benefit of the partnership. of the trust appears on the face of the will to be unlawful, or during the testator's lifetime (d) a, a partner, employed on behalf of himself and the legatee agrees with him to apply the his co-partners in negotiating the terms of a lease, clandestinely stipulates with the lessor property for an unlawful purpose, the for payment to himself of a lakh of rupees. a legatee must hold the property for the holds the lakh for the benefit of the benefit of the testator's legal representative. ' partnership. bequest of (2) where property is bequeathed and the (e) a and b are partners- a dies. b, instead of winding up the affairs of the partnership, which revocation of the bequest is prevented by revocation is retains all the assets in the business. b must prevented by duress, the legatee must hold the property account to a's legal representative for the duress. for the benefit of the testator's legal profits arising from a's share of the capital. representative. (f) a, an agent employed to obtain a lease for b, obtains the lease for himself. a holds the transfer 88. where property is transferred in lease for the benefit of b. pursuant to pursuance of a contract which is liable to rescindable' (g) a, a guardian, buys up for himself incumb ranees rescission or induced by fraud or mistake, contract- on his ward b's estate at an under-value. a the transferee must, on receiving notice to holds for the benefit of b the incumb ranees that effect, hold the property for the benefit so bought, and can only charge him with of the transferor, subject to repayment by what he has actually paid. the latter of the consideration actually paid, 91. where, by the exercise of undue advantage and subject to any compensation or other influence, any advantage is gained in gained by relief to which the.transferee may be by law exercise of derogation of the interests of another, the undue entitled.' person gaining such advantage without influence. consideration, or with notice that such debtor 89. where a debtor becomes the influence has been exercised, must hold the becoming executor or other legal representative of his advantage for the benefit of the person creditor's creditor, he must hold the debt for the whose interests have been so prejudiced. representative. benefit of the persons interested therein. 92. where a co-owner, mortgagee, or advantage advantage 90. where a trustee, executor, partner, other person with a qualified interest in any gained by gained by agent, director of a company, legal adviser, property, by availing himself of his position qualified fiduciary. or other person bound in a fiduciary as such, gains an advantage in derogation of character to protect the interests of another the rights of the other persons interested in person, by availing himself of his character, the property, or where any such person, as gains for himself any pecuniary advantage, or representing all persons interested in such where any person so bound enters into any property, gains any advantage, he must dealings under circumstances in which his hold, for the benefit of all persons so own interests are, or may be, adverse to interested, the advantage so gained, but those of such other person and thereby subject to repayment by such persons of gains for himself a pecuniary advantage, he their due share of the expenses properly incurred, and to an indemnity by the same must hold for the benefit of such other persons against liabilities properly person the advantage so gained. contracted, in gaining such advantage. illustrations illustration (a) a, an executor, buys at an under-value from b, a legatee, his claim under the will. b is a mortgages land to b, who enters into possession. b ignorant of the value of the bequest. a must - allows taxes due on the land to fall into hold for the benefit of b the difference arrear with a view to the land being put up between the price and value. for sale and his becoming himself the purchaser of it. the land is accordingly sold (b) a, a trustee, retires from his trust in to b. subject to the repayment of the consideration of his successor paying him a amount due on the mortgage and of his sum of money. a holds such money for the expenses properly incurred as mortgagee, b benefit of his beneficiary. holds the land for the benefit of a. iv/222 trusts [cap. 96 property 93. where a person- acquires property this ordinance otherwise provided, is acquired with with notice that another person has entered subject, so far as may be, to the same notice of into an existing contract affecting that liabilities and disabilities, as if he were a existing contract. property, of which specific performance trustee of the property for the person for could be enforced, the former must hold the whose benefit he holds it: property for the benefit of the latter to the provided that— extent necessary to give effect to the contract: (a) where he rightfully cultivates the property or employs it in trade or provided that in the case of a contract business, he is entitled to reasonable affecting immovable property, such contract remuneration for his trouble, skill, shall have been duly registered before such and loss of time in such cultivation acquisition. or employment; and purchase by 94. where a person contracts to buy person property to be held on trust for certain (b) where he holds the property by virtue contracting to of a contract with a person for beneficiaries and buys the property buy property . whose benefit he holds it, or with to be held on accordingly, he must hold the property for trust. their benefit to the extent necessary to give anyone through whom such person claims, he may, without the effect to the contract. permission of the court, buy or advantage 95. where creditors compound the debts become lessee or mortgagee of the secretly gained due to them, and one of such creditors, by a property or any part thereof. by one of secret arrangement with the debtor, gains an several compounding undue advantage over his co-creditors, he 98. nothing contained in this chapter saving rights creditors. must hold for the benefit of such creditors shall impair the rights of transferees in good of bona fide purchasers. faith for valuable consideration, or create an the advantage so gained. obligation in evasion of any law for the time constructive 96. in any case not coming within the being in force. trusts in cases scope of any of the preceding sections not expressly where there is no trust, but the person chapter x provided for. having possession of property has not the charitable trusts whole beneficial interest therein, he must hold the property for the benefit of the 99. (1) the expression " charitable special persons having such interest, or the residue trust " includes any trust for the benefit of "definitions. thereof (as the case may be), to the extent the public or any section of the public necessary to satisfy their just demands. within or without sri lanka of any of the following categories :— illustrations (a) for the relief of poverty ; or (a) a, an executor, distributes the assets of his testator b to the legatees without having (b) for the advancement of education or paid the whole of b's debts. the legatees knowledge ; or hold for the benefit of b's creditors, to the extent necessary to satisfy their just (c) for the advancement of religion or the demands, the assets so distributed. maintenance of religious rites and (b) a by mistake assumes the character of a trustee practices ; or for b, and under colour of the trust receives certain money. b may compel him to (d) for any other purposes beneficial or of account for such moneys. interest to mankind not falling (c) a makes a gift of a lakh of rupees to b, within the preceding categories. reserving to himself, with b's assent, power to revoke at pleasure the gift as to rs. (2) the expression " adaptation " with 10,000, the gift is revoked by a as to rs. reference to a trust means adaptation of the 10,000 and b thereupon holds that sum for "trust in such a manner as to carry out the the benefit of a. wishes of the author of the trust as nearly as obligor's 97. the person holding property in practicable, according to the doctrine of duties, accordance with any of the preceding cypres, where it is not possible to carry out liabilities, and sections of this chapter must, so far as may those wishes in the exact manner prescribed disabilities. be, perform the same duties, and, save as in by the instrument of trust. 1v/223