trusts [cap.96 (g) direct the manner in which all future (c) to provide for the settlement of the accounts shall be kept; remuneration of the trustee : (h) authorize in any scheme framed under provided that no such the said section the devotion of a remuneration shall in any case portion of the income of the trust exceed ten per centum of the gross property to the education of income of the trust; children of the religious community (d) to devote any surplus income that may interested in the trust, and, if be available after the reasonable necessary, the utilization of any satisfaction of the objects of the immovable property comprised in trust to the extension of such the trust as a site, for; the said objects, or, if the court see fit, to purpose. purposes of education. application of 106. in settling any scheme for the religious law. management of any trust under section 102, 109. this chapter shall not apply— exclusion of trusts under or in determining any question relating to— (a) to religious trusts regulated by the the buddhist temporalities buddhist temporalities ordinance ; (a) the constitution or existence of any ordinance and such trust; the muslim (b) to religious trusts regulated by the mosques and (fr) the devolution of the trusteeship ; muslim mosques and charitable charitable trusts or wakfs act. trusts or wakfs act. (c) the administration of the trust; the court shall have regard— chapter xi (i) to the instrument of trust (if any) ; miscellaneous (ii) to the religious law and custom of the community concerned ; 110. (1) no trust shall operate to create rule against an interest which is to take effect after the perpetuities. (iii) to the local custom or practice with lifetime of one or more persons living at the reference to the particular trust concerned ; date of the constitution of the trust, and the minority of some person who shall be in and may have regard to any arrangement de existence at the expiration of that period facto in force for the purpose of the and to whom, if he attains full age, the administration of the trust. interest created is to belong. de facto trusts. 107. in dealing with any property (2) if owing to any trust an interest is alleged to be subject to a charitable trust, created for the benefit of a class of persons the court shall not be debarred from with regard to some of whom such interest exercising any of its powers by the absence fails by reason of the provisions of this of evidence of the formal constitution of the section, such interest fails as regards the trust, if it shall be of opinion from ail the whole class. circumstances of the case that a trust in fact exists, or ought to be deemed to exist. (3) where an interest fails by reason of the provisions of this section, any interest special powers 108. in settling any scheme for the created in the same transaction and of court. management of a charitable trust (without intended to take effect after or upon failure prejudice to its general powers), the court of such prior interest also fails. shall have the powers following :— (4) in any case in which any interest (a) to provide for the periodical auditing intended to be created fails by reason of the of the accounts of the trust property provisions of this section, the court shall by auditors appointed by or subject have power to give effect to the trust in such to the approval of the court, or a manner as to carry out as nearly as otherwise as the court may deem practicable the intentions of the author of expedient ; the trust, subject to the limits imposed by (b) to provide for the visitation of the this section, and may make any order charity ; necessary for the purpose. iv/227 cap.96] trusts (5) the restrictions of this section shall (5) this section shall not apply to not apply to charitable trusts as defined by constructive trusts, except in so far as such section 99. trusts are treated as express trusts by the law of england. prescription 111. (1) in the following cases, that is to say 112. (i) in any of the following cases. vesting orders. namely :-- (a) in the case of any claim by any beneficiary against a trustee (i) where it is uncertain in whom the title founded upon any fraud or to any trust property is vested , or fraudulent breach of trust to which (ii) where a trustee or any other person in the trustee was party or privy ; whom the title to trust property is (b) in the case of any claim to recover vested has been required in writing , . trust property, or the proceeds to transfer the property by or on thereof still retained by a trustee, or behalf of a person entitled to previously received by the trustee require such transfer, and has and converted to his use , and wilfully refused or neglected to transfer the property for twenty- (c) in the case of any claim in the interests eight days after the date of the of any charitable trust, for the requirement, recovery of any property comprised in the trust, or for the assertion of the court may make an order (in this title to such property, ordinance called a " vesting order ") vesting the property in any such person in any such the claim shall not be held to be barred or manner or to any such extent as the court prejudiced by any provision of the may direct. prescription ordinance. (2) a vesting order under any provision of (2) save as aforesaid, all rights and this ordinance shall have the same effect as privileges conferred by the prescription if the trustee or other person in whom the ordinance shall be enjoyed by a trustee in trust property was vested had executed a all actions and legal proceedings in the like transfer to the effect intended by the order. manner and to the like extent as they would have been enjoyed if the trustee had not (3) a vesting order under this ordinance, been a trustee ; in so far as it affects immovable property, shall contain the particulars required by provided that in the case of any action or section 13 of the registration of documents other proceeding by a beneficiary to recover ordinance, and section 29 of the said money or other properly, the period of ordinance shall apply to every such order in prescription shall not begin to run against the same manner as if it were an instrument such beneficiary, unless and until the which affects land : interest ot such beneficiary shall be an interest in possession. provided that no such order in the case of any charitable trust shall be invalidated by (3) no beneficiary as against whom there reason of the fact that il does not contain would be a good defence by virtue of this the said particulars, or shall be liable to be section shall derive any greater or other defeated by the registration of any benefit from a judgment or order obtained subsequent deed, order, or other instrument by another beneficiary than he could have under section 7 of the said ordinance. obtained if he had brought such action or other proceeding and this section had been (4) where any trust property comprises pleaded. any stocks or any shares or securities (4) nothing in this section shall preclude transferable in any book kept by any the court from giving effect to any company or society, or any shares in any application by a trustee for any equitable ship registered under the law relating to relief to which he would otherwise be merchant shipping, a vesting order under entitled on any ground recognized by the this section shall not take effect, so far as it court. relates thereto, unless and until notice of iv/228