cap.96] trusts (5) the restrictions of this section shall (5) this section shall not apply to not apply to charitable trusts as defined by constructive trusts, except in so far as such section 99. trusts are treated as express trusts by the law of england. prescription 111. (1) in the following cases, that is to say 112. (i) in any of the following cases. vesting orders. namely :-- (a) in the case of any claim by any beneficiary against a trustee (i) where it is uncertain in whom the title founded upon any fraud or to any trust property is vested , or fraudulent breach of trust to which (ii) where a trustee or any other person in the trustee was party or privy ; whom the title to trust property is (b) in the case of any claim to recover vested has been required in writing , . trust property, or the proceeds to transfer the property by or on thereof still retained by a trustee, or behalf of a person entitled to previously received by the trustee require such transfer, and has and converted to his use , and wilfully refused or neglected to transfer the property for twenty- (c) in the case of any claim in the interests eight days after the date of the of any charitable trust, for the requirement, recovery of any property comprised in the trust, or for the assertion of the court may make an order (in this title to such property, ordinance called a " vesting order ") vesting the property in any such person in any such the claim shall not be held to be barred or manner or to any such extent as the court prejudiced by any provision of the may direct. prescription ordinance. (2) a vesting order under any provision of (2) save as aforesaid, all rights and this ordinance shall have the same effect as privileges conferred by the prescription if the trustee or other person in whom the ordinance shall be enjoyed by a trustee in trust property was vested had executed a all actions and legal proceedings in the like transfer to the effect intended by the order. manner and to the like extent as they would have been enjoyed if the trustee had not (3) a vesting order under this ordinance, been a trustee ; in so far as it affects immovable property, shall contain the particulars required by provided that in the case of any action or section 13 of the registration of documents other proceeding by a beneficiary to recover ordinance, and section 29 of the said money or other properly, the period of ordinance shall apply to every such order in prescription shall not begin to run against the same manner as if it were an instrument such beneficiary, unless and until the which affects land : interest ot such beneficiary shall be an interest in possession. provided that no such order in the case of any charitable trust shall be invalidated by (3) no beneficiary as against whom there reason of the fact that il does not contain would be a good defence by virtue of this the said particulars, or shall be liable to be section shall derive any greater or other defeated by the registration of any benefit from a judgment or order obtained subsequent deed, order, or other instrument by another beneficiary than he could have under section 7 of the said ordinance. obtained if he had brought such action or other proceeding and this section had been (4) where any trust property comprises pleaded. any stocks or any shares or securities (4) nothing in this section shall preclude transferable in any book kept by any the court from giving effect to any company or society, or any shares in any application by a trustee for any equitable ship registered under the law relating to relief to which he would otherwise be merchant shipping, a vesting order under entitled on any ground recognized by the this section shall not take effect, so far as it court. relates thereto, unless and until notice of iv/228 trusts [cap. 96 such order in writing shall have been given any trust for the purpose of any public or by or on behalf of the person in whom the private association (not being an association property is vested under the order to the for the purpose of gain), a method for the person or authority in charge of the register appointment of new trustees is prescribed in or book in which such stocks, shares, or the instrument of trust (other than securities, as the case may be, are entered, nomination in the manner referred to in and upon such notice in writing being given, paragraph (a) of section 75), or by any rule and on reasonable proof being furnished in force, or in the absence of any such that such stocks, shares, or securities form prescribed method is established by custom, part of the said trust property, the person in then upon any new trustee being appointed whom the property is vested under the order in accordance with such prescribed or shall be entitled to a transfer into his name customary method, and upon the execution of any such stocks, shares, or securities, and of the memorandum referred to in the next to the receipt of all dividends, interest, or succeeding subsection, the trust property other sums due, or to become due, in shall become vested without any respect of any such stocks, shares, or conveyance, vesting order, or other securities. assurance in such new trustee and the old continuing trustees jointly, or if there are no (5) in all cases in which a vesting order old continuing trustees, in such new trustee can be made under this section the court wholly. may, if it is more convenient, appoint a person to transfer the property, and a (3) every appointment under the last transfer by that person in conformity with preceding subsection shall be made to the order shall have the same effect as an appear by a memorandum under the hand order under this section, and every person of the person presiding at the meeting, or so appointed for the purposes of all other proceeding at which the appointment transactions, proceedings, and formalities was made, and attested by two other incidental to the said transfer shall have all persons present at the said meeting or the powers and capacities of the trustee or proceeding. every such memorandum shall other person in whom the trust property be notarially executed. was vested, and shall be deemed to be the duly authorized attorney of such trustee or (4) it shall be the duty of the registrar- other person for the purposes aforesaid. general to prepare and maintain special registers of trustees appointed under dcvolution of 113. (i) where, whether before or after subsection (2) of this section, and it shall be trust properly. the commencement of this ordinance, it is the duty of every notary before whom any declared or intended in any instrument of such memorandum is attested to forward to trust that the trustee of the trust shall be a the prescribed officer for the purpose of person for the time being holding or acting such registers all such particulars with in any public office, or holding or acting in reference to such memorandum as may be any office or discharging any duty in any prescribed by rules made under the notaries public or private institution, body, ordinance. corporation, association, or community, or where any property comes into or is in the (5) all rules made in pursuance of the last possession or ownership of any such person preceding subsection shall apply to notaries in any of the aforesaid capacities upon any who are attorneys-at-law in the same constructive trust, the title to the trust manner as to other notaries, anything in property shall devolve from time to time section 36 of the notaries ordinance, to the upon the person for the time being holding contrary notwithstanding. or acting in any such office, or discharging 114. the minister may, in his discretion, incorporation such duly, without any conveyance, vesting by order, on the application of the trustees of trustees. order, or other assurance otherwise of any charitable trust or of any public or necessary for vesting the property in such private association (not being an association person. for the purposes of gain), authorize the (2) where, whether before or after the incorporation of the said trustees, and upon commencement of this ordinance, in the the publication of the said order, the said case of any charitable trust, or in the case of trustees of the charity or association and iv/229