Cap.96] TRUSTS
(5) The restrictions of this section shall (5) This section shall not apply to
not apply to charitable trusts as defined by constructive trusts, except in so far as such
section 99. trusts are treated as express trusts by the
law of England.
Prescription 111. (1) In the following cases, that is to
say 112. (I) In any of the following cases. Vesting orders.
namely :--
(a) in the case of any claim by any
beneficiary against a trustee (i) where it is uncertain in whom the title
founded upon any fraud or to any trust property is vested , or
fraudulent breach of trust to which
(ii) where a trustee or any other person in
the trustee was party or privy ;
whom the title to trust property is
(b) in the case of any claim to recover vested has been required in writing , .
trust property, or the proceeds to transfer the property by or on
thereof still retained by a trustee, or behalf of a person entitled to
previously received by the trustee require such transfer, and has
and converted to his use , and wilfully refused or neglected to
transfer the property for twenty-
(c) in the case of any claim in the interests
eight days after the date of the
of any charitable trust, for the
requirement,
recovery of any property comprised
in the trust, or for the assertion of the court may make an order (in this
title to such property, Ordinance called a " vesting order ") vesting
the property in any such person in any such
the claim shall not be held to be barred or
manner or to any such extent as the court
prejudiced by any provision of the
may direct.
Prescription Ordinance.
(2) A vesting order under any provision of
(2) Save as aforesaid, all rights and
this Ordinance shall have the same effect as
privileges conferred by the Prescription
if the trustee or other person in whom the
Ordinance shall be enjoyed by a trustee in
trust property was vested had executed a
all actions and legal proceedings in the like
transfer to the effect intended by the order.
manner and to the like extent as they would
have been enjoyed if the trustee had not (3) A vesting order under this Ordinance,
been a trustee ; in so far as it affects immovable property,
shall contain the particulars required by
Provided that in the case of any action or
section 13 of the Registration of Documents
other proceeding by a beneficiary to recover
Ordinance, and section 29 of the said
money or other properly, the period of
Ordinance shall apply to every such order in
prescription shall not begin to run against
the same manner as if it were an instrument
such beneficiary, unless and until the
which affects land :
interest ot such beneficiary shall be an
interest in possession. Provided that no such order in the case of
any charitable trust shall be invalidated by
(3) No beneficiary as against whom there
reason of the fact that il does not contain
would be a good defence by virtue of this
the said particulars, or shall be liable to be
section shall derive any greater or other
defeated by the registration of any
benefit from a judgment or order obtained
subsequent deed, order, or other instrument
by another beneficiary than he could have
under section 7 of the said Ordinance.
obtained if he had brought such action or
other proceeding and this section had been
(4) Where any trust property comprises
pleaded.
any stocks or any shares or securities
(4) Nothing in this section shall preclude transferable in any book kept by any
the court from giving effect to any company or society, or any shares in any
application by a trustee for any equitable ship registered under the law relating to
relief to which he would otherwise be merchant shipping, a vesting order under
entitled on any ground recognized by the this section shall not take effect, so far as it
court. relates thereto, unless and until notice of
IV/228
TRUSTS [Cap. 96
such order in writing shall have been given any trust for the purpose of any public or
by or on behalf of the person in whom the private association (not being an association
property is vested under the order to the for the purpose of gain), a method for the
person or authority in charge of the register appointment of new trustees is prescribed in
or book in which such stocks, shares, or the instrument of trust (other than
securities, as the case may be, are entered, nomination in the manner referred to in
and upon such notice in writing being given, paragraph (a) of section 75), or by any rule
and on reasonable proof being furnished in force, or in the absence of any such
that such stocks, shares, or securities form prescribed method is established by custom,
part of the said trust property, the person in then upon any new trustee being appointed
whom the property is vested under the order in accordance with such prescribed or
shall be entitled to a transfer into his name customary method, and upon the execution
of any such stocks, shares, or securities, and of the memorandum referred to in the next
to the receipt of all dividends, interest, or succeeding subsection, the trust property
other sums due, or to become due, in shall become vested without any
respect of any such stocks, shares, or conveyance, vesting order, or other
securities. assurance in such new trustee and the old
continuing trustees jointly, or if there are no
(5) In all cases in which a vesting order
old continuing trustees, in such new trustee
can be made under this section the court
wholly.
may, if it is more convenient, appoint a
person to transfer the property, and a (3) Every appointment under the last
transfer by that person in conformity with preceding subsection shall be made to
the order shall have the same effect as an appear by a memorandum under the hand
order under this section, and every person of the person presiding at the meeting, or
so appointed for the purposes of all other proceeding at which the appointment
transactions, proceedings, and formalities was made, and attested by two other
incidental to the said transfer shall have all persons present at the said meeting or
the powers and capacities of the trustee or proceeding. Every such memorandum shall
other person in whom the trust property be notarially executed.
was vested, and shall be deemed to be the
duly authorized attorney of such trustee or (4) It shall be the duty of the Registrar-
other person for the purposes aforesaid. General to prepare and maintain special
registers of trustees appointed under
Dcvolution of 113. (I) Where, whether before or after
subsection (2) of this section, and it shall be
trust properly. the commencement of this Ordinance, it is
the duty of every notary before whom any
declared or intended in any instrument of
such memorandum is attested to forward to
trust that the trustee of the trust shall be a
the prescribed officer for the purpose of
person for the time being holding or acting
such registers all such particulars with
in any public office, or holding or acting in
reference to such memorandum as may be
any office or discharging any duty in any
prescribed by rules made under the Notaries
public or private institution, body,
Ordinance.
corporation, association, or community, or
where any property comes into or is in the (5) All rules made in pursuance of the last
possession or ownership of any such person preceding subsection shall apply to notaries
in any of the aforesaid capacities upon any who are attorneys-at-law in the same
constructive trust, the title to the trust manner as to other notaries, anything in
property shall devolve from time to time section 36 of the Notaries Ordinance, to the
upon the person for the time being holding contrary notwithstanding.
or acting in any such office, or discharging
114. The Minister may, in his discretion, Incorporation
such duly, without any conveyance, vesting
by Order, on the application of the trustees of trustees.
order, or other assurance otherwise
of any charitable trust or of any public or
necessary for vesting the property in such
private association (not being an association
person.
for the purposes of gain), authorize the
(2) Where, whether before or after the incorporation of the said trustees, and upon
commencement of this Ordinance, in the the publication of the said Order, the said
case of any charitable trust, or in the case of trustees of the charity or association and
IV/229
