TRUSTS [Cap. 96
Property 93. Where a person- acquires property this Ordinance otherwise provided, is
acquired with with notice that another person has entered subject, so far as may be, to the same
notice of
into an existing contract affecting that liabilities and disabilities, as if he were a
existing
contract. property, of which specific performance trustee of the property for the person for
could be enforced, the former must hold the whose benefit he holds it:
property for the benefit of the latter to the
Provided that—
extent necessary to give effect to the
contract:
(a) where he rightfully cultivates the
property or employs it in trade or
Provided that in the case of a contract
business, he is entitled to reasonable
affecting immovable property, such contract
remuneration for his trouble, skill,
shall have been duly registered before such
and loss of time in such cultivation
acquisition.
or employment; and
Purchase by 94. Where a person contracts to buy
person property to be held on trust for certain (b) where he holds the property by virtue
contracting to of a contract with a person for
beneficiaries and buys the property
buy property
. whose benefit he holds it, or with
to be held on accordingly, he must hold the property for
trust. their benefit to the extent necessary to give anyone through whom such person
claims, he may, without the
effect to the contract.
permission of the court, buy or
Advantage 95. Where creditors compound the debts become lessee or mortgagee of the
secretly gained due to them, and one of such creditors, by a property or any part thereof.
by one of
secret arrangement with the debtor, gains an
several
compounding undue advantage over his co-creditors, he 98. Nothing contained in this Chapter Saving rights
creditors. must hold for the benefit of such creditors shall impair the rights of transferees in good of bona fide
purchasers.
faith for valuable consideration, or create an
the advantage so gained.
obligation in evasion of any law for the time
Constructive 96. In any case not coming within the being in force.
trusts in cases scope of any of the preceding sections
not expressly
where there is no trust, but the person CHAPTER X
provided for.
having possession of property has not the
CHARITABLE TRUSTS
whole beneficial interest therein, he must
hold the property for the benefit of the
99. (1) The expression " charitable Special
persons having such interest, or the residue
trust " includes any trust for the benefit of "definitions.
thereof (as the case may be), to the extent
the public or any section of the public
necessary to satisfy their just demands.
within or without Sri Lanka of any of the
following categories :—
Illustrations
(a) for the relief of poverty ; or
(a) A, an executor, distributes the assets of his
testator B to the legatees without having
(b) for the advancement of education or
paid the whole of B's debts. The legatees
knowledge ; or
hold for the benefit of B's creditors, to the
extent necessary to satisfy their just
(c) for the advancement of religion or the
demands, the assets so distributed.
maintenance of religious rites and
(b) A by mistake assumes the character of a trustee
practices ; or
for B, and under colour of the trust receives
certain money. B may compel him to (d) for any other purposes beneficial or of
account for such moneys. interest to mankind not falling
(c) A makes a gift of a lakh of rupees to B, within the preceding categories.
reserving to himself, with B's assent, power
to revoke at pleasure the gift as to Rs. (2) The expression " adaptation " with
10,000, The gift is revoked by A as to Rs. reference to a trust means adaptation of the
10,000 and B thereupon holds that sum for "trust in such a manner as to carry out the
the benefit of A.
wishes of the author of the trust as nearly as
Obligor's 97. The person holding property in practicable, according to the doctrine of
duties, accordance with any of the preceding cypres, where it is not possible to carry out
liabilities, and
sections of this Chapter must, so far as may those wishes in the exact manner prescribed
disabilities.
be, perform the same duties, and, save as in by the instrument of trust.
1V/223
Cap. 96] TRUSTS
(3) The expression " settlement of a for the purpose of invoking the assistance of
scheme " includes variation of a scheme the court for the better securing of the
.previously settled. objects of the trust, or for regulating its
administration or the succession to the
(4) The expression " place of religious
trusteeship, and upon any such application
resort " includes the establishments
the court may make such order as it may
commonly known as " madams " or
deem equitable.
" chat trams ".
(3) For the purpose of any proceeding
General powers 100. The court shall have the same under this section with respect to any
of the court. power for the establishment, regulation,
religious trust, regard shall be had to the
protection, and adaptation of all
statutory or other powers belonging to, or
" charitable trusts " (as defined by this
customarily exercised by, the authorities of
Ordinance) as are exercised for the time
any religious body or society concerned in
being with reference to " charitable trusts "
the administration of the trust.
within the meaning of English law by the
High Court of Justice in England. (4) This section shall not apply to trusts
governed by the next succeeding section.
Actions for 101. (1) In case of any alleged breach of
carrying into any express or constructive charitable trust, 102. (1) Subject to the conditions of Suits by
effect trusts for
or whenever the direction of the court is subsection (3) hereof, any five persons persons
public charity.
interested in
deemed necessary for the administration of interested in any place of worship, or in any
religious trusts-
any such trust, the Attorney-General acting religious establishment or place of religious
ex officio. or two or more persons having an resort, or in the performance of the worship
interest in the trust, and having obtained the or of the service thereof, or in the trusts,
consent in writing of the Attorney-General, express or constructive, relating thereto,
may institute an action in the court within may, without joining as plaintiff any of the
the local limits of whose civil jurisdiction other persons interested, institute an action
the whole or any part of the subject-matter in the court within the local limits of whose
of the trust is held or situate to obtain a civil jurisdiction any such place or
decree— establishment is situate, or if such place is
situate outside Sri Lanka, and the action is
(a) removing any trustees or trustee of the
instituted with respect to immovable
charity and, if necessary, appointing
property situate within Sri Lanka, in the
new trustees thereof;
court having local jurisdiction, to obtain a
decree—
(b) directing accounts and inquiries ;
(a) settling a scheme for the management
(c) declaring what proportion of the trust
of the trusts thereof ;
property or of the interest therein
shall be allocated to any particular
(b) vesting any property in the trustees ;
object of the trust;
(c) enumerating the properties comprised
(d) authorizing the whole or any part of
in the trust, or declaring that any
the trust property to be let, sold,
property is trust property
mortgaged, or exchanged ;
- comprised in the trust ;
(e) settling a scheme for the management (d) directing accounts and inquiries ;
of the trust ;
(e) declaring what proportion of the trust
(f) granting such further or other relief as property or of any interest therein
the nature of the case may require. - shall be allocated to any particular
object of the trust;
(2) Nothing contained in this or the next
succeeding section shall be deemed to (f) - declaring any trustee, manager, or
preclude the trustee or author of any superintendent of such place or
charitable trust from applying to the court establishment, or member of any
by action or otherwise for such direction or committee of management, guilty of
relief as he may be entitled to obtain under any misfeasance, breach of trust, or
the general provisions of this Ordinance, or neglect of duty ;
IV/224
TRUSTS [Cap.96
(g) awarding damages and costs "against (a) that the subject-matter of the plaint is
any such trustee, manager, one that calls for the consideration
superintendent, or member of a of the court ; and
committee in respect of any such
misfeasance, breach of trust, or (b) either that it has not proved possible
neglect of duty ; to bring about an amicable
settlement of the questions
(h) directing the removal of any trustee,
involved, or that the assistance of
manager, superintendent, or
the court is required for the purpose
member of a committee, and, if
of giving effect to any amicable
necessary, directing the
settlement that has been arrived at.
appointment of any new trustee,
manager, superintendent, or
(4) It shall be the duty of the Government
member of a committee ;
Agent, in any case in which he shall have
(i) directing the specific performance of good reason to believe that the persons
any act by any trustee* manager, presenting such petition or any five of them
superintendent, or member of a are persons interested within the meaning of
committee ; subsection (2) of this section, for which
purpose he may require to be satisfied by
(j) granting such further or other relief as
affidavit or otherwise, to appoint for the
the nature of the case may require.
purposes of the inquiry a commissioner or
(2) The interest required in order to commissioners whom he may consider to be
entitle a person to sue under this section a person or persons of acknowledged
need not be a pecuniary or immediate standing and repute in the general or local
interest, or such an interest as would entitle religious community concerned ,
the person suing to take any part in the
management or superintendence of the Provided that the Government Agent may
trust. Any person who is connected with the appoint himself as the commissioner or as
trust as donor, or by family or hereditary one of the commissioners ;
interests, or who for a period of not less
than twelve months has been in the habit of
Provided further, that the Government
attending at the performance of the worship
Agent may require the petitioners to deposit
or services of, or connected with, the place
with him an amount sufficient to cover the
or establishment in question, or of
reasonable expenses of the commissioner or
contributing to the general or any special
commissioners in respect of travelling
expenses incidental to such worship or
expenses and subsistence incidental to the
services, or of partaking in the benefit of
inquiry prayed for and any such costs
any distribution of alms thereat, or in
certified by.the Government Agent to have
connection therewith, or of otherwise
been properly incurred for the purposes of
enjoying the benefit of the trust, shall be
the inquiry and to have been duly paid shall
deemed to be a person interested within the
be deemed to be costs in the action.
meaning of this section.
(3) No action shall be entertained under (5) It shall be the duty of any
this section unless the plaintiffs shall have commissioner or commissioners appointed
previously presented a petition to the for the purpose of any such inquiry to
Government Agent of the Administrative render a report in terms of subsection (3)
District in which such place or hereof within such time as shall be specified
establishment is situate praying for the for the purpose by the Government Agent,
appointment of a . commissioner or or within such further time as he may from
commissioners to inquire into the subject- time to time authorize.
matter of the plaint, and unless the
Government Agent shall have certified that (6) The report shall be Filed in the office
an inquiry has been held in pursuance of the of the Government Agent, and the
said petition, and that the commissioner or petitioners and the trustee shall be entitled,
commissioners (or a majority of them) has on payment of the usual copying charges, to
reported— be furnished with a copy thereof.
IV/225
