TRUSTS [Cap. 96
(d) where he may be fairly presumed to compound interest, or with the amount of
have received interest; such securities as he might have purchased
with the trust money when the investment
(e) where the breach consists in failure to should have been made, together with the
invest trust money and to accumulate amount of the accumulation which would have
arisen from a proper investment of the
the interest or dividend thereon, he is
intermediate dividends.
liable to account for compound
interest (with half-yearly rests) at the (g) Trust property is invested in one of the securities
mentioned in section 20, clause (a), (c), or ((d).
same rate ;
The trustee sells such security for some
purpose not authorized by the terms of the
(f) where the breach consists in the
instrument of trust. He is liable, at the option
employment of trust property or the
of the beneficiary, either to replace the security
proceeds thereof in trade or business, with the intermediate dividends and interest
he is liable to account, at the option thereon, or to account for the proceeds of the
of the beneficiary, either for sale with interest thereon.
compound interest (with half-yearly
(h) The trust property consists of land. The trustee sells
rests) at the same rate or for the net the land to a purchaser for a consideration
profits made by such employment. without notice of the trust. The trustee is
liable, at the option of the beneficiary, to
(3) He is liable in case (a) to account for the purchase other land of equal value to be
interest actually received, and in cases (b), (c), settled upon the like trust, or to be charged
with the proceeds of the sale with interest.
and (d) to account for simple interest at the
rate of six per centum per annum, unless the 24. A trustee who is liable for a loss No set-off
court otherwise directs. occasioned by a breach of trust in respect of allowed to
trustee
one portion of the trust property cannot set
Illustrations off against his liability a gain which has
accrued to another portion of the trust
(a) A trustee improperly leaves trust property
outstanding, and it is consequently lost ; he is property through another and distinct breach
liable tomake good the property lost, but he is of trust.
not liable to pay interest thereon.
25. Where a trustee succeeds another, he Non-liability for
(b) A bequeaths a house to B in trust to sell it and pay
is not, as such, liable for the acts or defaults predecessor's
the proceeds to C. B neglects to sell the house default.
of his predecessor.
for a great length of time, whereby the house is
deteriorated and its market price falls. B is
26. (1) Subject to the provisions of Non-liability for
answerable to C for the loss.
sections 13 and 15, one trustee is not, as such, co-trustee's
(c) A trustee is guilty of unreasonable delay in investing liable for a breach of trust committed by his default.
trust money in accordance with section 20, or
co-trustee :
in paying it to the beneficiary. The trustee is
liable to pay interest thereon for the period of
Provided that, in the absence of an express
the delay;
declaration to the contrary in the instrument
(d) The duty of the trustee is to invest trust money in of trust, a trustee is so liable—
any of the securities mentioned in section 20.
Instead of so doing, he retains the money in (a) where he has delivered trust property to
his hands. He is liable, at the option of the
his co-trustee without seeing to its
beneficiary, to be charged either with the
proper application ;
amount of the principal money and interest, or
with the amount of such securities as he might
(b) where he allows his co-trustee to receive
have purchased with the trust money when the
investment should have been made, and the trust property and fails to make due
intermediate dividends and interest thereon. inquiry as to the co-trustee's dealings
(e) The instrument of trust directs the trustee to invest therewith, or allows him to retain it
trust money either in any such securities or on longer than the circumstances of the
mortgage of immovable property. The trustee case reasonably require ;
does neither. He is liable for the principal
money and interest. (c) where he becomes aware of a breach of
(f) The instrument of trust directs the trustee to invest trust committed or intended by his
trust money in any of such securities and to co-trustee, and either actively
accumulate the dividends thereon. The trustee conceals it, or does not within a
disregards the direction. He is liable at the
reasonable time take proper steps to
option of the beneficiary, to be charged either
protect the beneficiary's interest.
with the amount of the principal money and
1V/211
Cap.96] TRUSTS
Joining in (2) A co-trustee who jons in signing a 30. Subject to the provisions of the Indemnity of
receipt for receipt for trust property, if he proves, or if instrument of trust and of sections 23 and 26, trustees.
conformity. . . . , , , • ,
it otherwise appears that he has not received trustees shall be respectively chargeable only
the same, is not answerable, by reason of for such moneys, stocks, funds, and securities
- such signature only, for loss or as they respectively actually receive, and shall
misapplication of the property by his not be answerable the one for the other of
co-trustee. them, nor for any banker, broker, or other
person in whose hands any trust property
Illustration may be placed, nor for the insufficiency or
deficiency of any stocks, funds, or securities,
A bequeaths certain property to B and C, and directs
nor otherwise for involuntary losses.
them to sell it and invest the proceeds for the
benefit of D. B and C accordingly sell the
31. If it appears to the court that a trustee Relief of trustee
property, and the purchase money is received
is or may be personally liable for any breach from
by B and retained in his hands. C pays no
consequences of
attention to the matter for two years, and of trust, whether the transaction alleged to be
breach of trust.
then calls on B to make the investment. B is a breach of trust occurred before or after the
unable to do so. becomes insolvent, and the commencement of this Ordinance, but has
purchase money is lost, C may be compelled
acted honestly and reasonably and ought
to make good the amount.
fairly to be excused for the breach of trust,
Several liability 27. (1) Where co-trustees jointly commit and for omitting to obtain the directions of
of co-trustees. a breach of trust, or where one of them by the court in the matter in which he committed
his neglect enables the other to commit a such breach, then the court may relieve the
breach of (rust, each is liable to the trustee either wholly or partly from personal
beneficiary for the whole of the loss liability for the same.
occasioned by such breach.
CHAPTER IV
Contribution But as between the trustees themselves, if
as between one be less guilty than another and has had OF THE RIGHTS AND POWERS
co-trustees. to refund the loss, the former may compel OF TRUSTEES
the latter, or his legal representative to the
32. A trustee is entitled to have in his Right to title
extent of the assets he has received, to make
possession the instrument of trust and all the deed-
good such loss, and if all be equally guilty,
documents of title (if any) relating solely to
any one or more of the trustees who has had
the trust property.
to refund the loss may compel the others to
contribute. 33. (1) Every trustee may reimburse Right to
himself , or pay or discharge out of the trust reimbursement
(2) Nothing in this section shall be property, all expenses properly incurred in or of expenses
deemed to authorize a trustee who has been about the execution of the trust, or the
guilty of fraud to institute a suit to compel realization, reservation, or benefit of the trust
contribution. property, or the protection or support of the
beneficiary.
Non-liability of 28. When any beneficiary's interest (2) If he pays such expenses out of his own
trustee paying becomes vested in another person, and the pocket, he has a first charge upon the trust
without notice
trustee, not having notice of the vesting, property for such expenses and interest
of transfer by
beneficiary. pays or delivers trust property to the person thereon ; but such charge (unless the expenses
who would have been entitled thereto in the have been incurred with the sanction of the
absence of such vesting, the trustee is not court) shall be enforced only by prohibiting
liable for the property'so paid or delivered. any disposition of the trust property without
previous payment of such expenses and
interest.
Liability of 29. When the beneficiary's interest is
trustee where forfeited or awarded by legal adjudication
(3)' If the trust property fail, the trustee is
beneficiary's
interest is to Government, the trustee is bound to hold entitled to recover from the beneficiary
forfeited to the trust property to the extent of such personally on whose behalf he acted, and at
Government. interest for the benefit of such person in whose request, expressed or implied, he
such manner as the Government may direct made the payment, the amount of such
in this behalf. expenses.
1V/212
TRUSTS [Cap.96
Right to be (4) Where a trustee has by mistake made trust property examined and settled ; and,
recouped for an overpayment to the beneficiary, he may where nothing is due to the beneficiary
erroneous
reimburse the trust property out of the under the trust, to an acknowledgment in
overpayment.
beneficiary's interest. If such interest fail, writing to that effect.
the trustee is entitled to recover from the
37. In addition to the powers expressly General
beneficiary personally the amount of such
conferred by this Ordinance and by the authority of
overpayment.
instrument of trust, and subject to the trustee
Right to 34. (1) A person other than a trustee, or restrictions, if any, contained in such
indemnity from a transferee in good faith for consideration instrument and to the provisions of section
gainer by
who has gained an advantage from a breach 17, a trustee may do all acts which are
breach of trust.
of trust must indemnify the trustee to the reasonable and proper for the realization,
extent of the amount actually received by protection, or benefit of the trust property,
such person under the breach, and where and for the protection or support of a
such person is a beneficiary, the trustee has beneficiary who is not competent to
a charge on his interest for such amount. contract.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be 38. (1) Except with the permission of the Power to lease.
deemed to entitle a trustee to be indemnified court, and subject to any special statutory
who has in committing the breach of trust, provision in that behalf, no trustee shall
been guilty of fraud. lease trust property for a term expiring at a
date later than the end of ten years from the
Illustration date of the execution of the lease, or if the
date of the termination of the trust is
The trustee of a family trust bona fide pays over a
certain part of the trust moneys to a member ascertained, for a term expiring at a date
of the family contrary to the terms of the later than the date of such termination, nor
instrument of trust, and the court orders the without reserving the best yearly rent that
trustee to replace the money. He is entitled
can be reasonably obtained.
to be indemnified by the person to whom he
has paid il.
(2) Any lease executed without the
Right to apply 35. (1) Any trustee may, without permission of the court for a term exceeding
to court for instituting a suit, apply by petition to the the limits authorized by this section shall be
opinion in
court for its opinion, advice, or direction on void to the extent to which it so exceeds the
management of
trust property. any present questions respecting the said limits.
management or administration of the trust
property other than questions of detail, 39. Where the trustee is empowered to Power to sell in
difficulty, or importance not proper, in the sell any trust property, he may sell the same, lots, and either
by public
opinion of the court, for summary disposal. subject to prior charges or not, and either
auction or
together or in lots, by public auction or private
(2) A copy of such petition shall be served private contract, and either at one time or at contract.
upon, and the hearing thereof may be
several times, unless the instrument of trust
attended by, such of the persons interested
otherwise directs.
in the application as the court thinks fit.
40. (1) The trustee making any such sale Power to sell
(3) The trustee stating in good faith the
may insert such reasonable stipulations under special
facts in such petition, and acting upon the conditions.
either as to title or evidence of title, or terms
opinion, advice, or direction given by the
of payment, or otherwise, in any conditions
court, shall be deemed, so far as regards his
of sale or contract for sale, as he thinks fit ;
own responsibility, to have discharged his
and may also buy in the property or any part Power to buy
duty as such trustee in the subject-matter of
thereof at any sale by auction, and rescind in and re-sell.
the application.
»or vary any contract for sale, and re-sell the
(4) The costs of every application under property so bought in, or as to which the
this section shall be in the discretion of the contract is' so rescinded, without being
court to which it is made. responsible to the beneficiary for any loss
occasioned thereby :
Right to 36. When the duties of a trustee, as
settlement of such, are completed, he is entitled to have Provided he shall have acted in good faith
accounts.
the accounts of his administration of the and without negligence,
IV/213
Cap.96] TRUSTS
Time allowed (2) Where a trustee is directed to sell trust and the resulting income thereof from time
for selling trust property or to invest trust money in the to time in securities in which he is by the
property.
purchase of property, he may exercise a instrument of trust, if any, or by section 20
reasonable discretion as to the time of of this Ordinance, authorized to invest trust
effecting the sale or purchase. money, and shall hold the accumulations for
the benefit of the minor ; but so that the
Illustrations trustee may at any time, if he thinks fit,
(a) A bequeaths property to B, directing him to sell it apply the accumulations, or any part
with all convenient speed and pay the thereof, as if the same were income arising
proceeds to C. This does not render an in the then current year.
immediate sale imperative.
(3) This section applies only if and as far
(b) A bequeaths property to B, directing him to sell it
as contrary intention is not expressed in the
at such time and in such manner as he shall
think fit and invest the proceeds for the instrument of trust, and shall have effect
benefit of C. This does not authorize B, as subject to the terms of that instrument and
between him and C, to postpone the sale to to the provisions therein contained.
an indefinite period.
(4) Where the income of the trust
Power to 41. For the purpose of completing any
convey. such sale, the trustee shall have power to property is insufficient for the minor's
maintenance, or education, or marriage, or
convey or otherwise dispose of the property
advancement in life, the trustee may, with the
sold in such manner as may be necessary.
permission of the court, and not otherwise,
Power to vary 42. (1) A trustee may, at his discretion, apply the whole or any part of such
invest menls. call in any trust property invested in any property for or towards such maintenance,
security and invest the same on any of the education, marriage, or advancement.
securities mentioned or referred to in section
20, and from time to time vary any such 44. Any trustees or trustee may give a Power to give
investments for others of the same nature. receipt in writing for any money, securities, receipts.
or other movable property payable,
Power of court (2) When any immovable property is the transferable, or deliverable to them or him
to authorize subject-matter of any trust, the court may
by reason, or in the exercise, of any trust or
sale, exchange,
authorize any sale, exchange, mortgage, or
&c., of trust power ; and, in the absence of fraud, such
property. other disposition of the property, which it receipt shall discharge the person paying,
considers to be in the interests of the objects transferring, or delivering the same
of the trust. therefrom, and from seeing to the
application thereof, or being accountable
(3) Nothing contained in subsection" (2)
for any loss or misapplication thereof.
shall be deemed to derogate from the rights
of a trustee under subsection (1).
45. (1) Two or more trustees acting Power to
together, or if there is only one trustee of compound,
Power to apply 43. (1) Where any property is held by a
&c.
property of trustee in trust for a minor, either for life or the trust, such trustee may, if and as they or
minors, &c., for any greater interest, and whether he shall think fit—
for their
maintenance. absolutely or contingently on his attaining
(a) accept any composition or any
the age of majority, or on the occurrence of
security for any debt or for any
any event before his attaining that age, the
property claimed ;
trustee may at his sole discretion pay to the
minor's parent or guardian, if any, or (b) allow any time for payment of any
otherwise apply for or towards the minor's debt ;
maintenance, education, or benefit, the
income of the property, or any part thereof, (c) compromise, compound, abandon,
whether there is any other fund applicable , submit to arbitration, or otherwise
to the same purpose, or any person bound settle any debt, account, claim, or
by law to provide for the minor's thing whatever relating to the trust ;
maintenance or education or not. and
(2) The trustee shall accumulate all the (d) for any of those purposes enter into,
residue of the income in the way of give, execute, and do such
compound interest by investing the same agreements, instruments of
IV/214
TRUSTS [Cap. 96
composition or arrangement, (a) the instrument of trust so provides ; or
releases, and other things as to
(b) the delegation is in the regular course
them or him seem expedient,
of business ; or
without being responsible for any
loss occasioned by any act or thing (c) the delegation is necessary ; or
so done by them or him in good (d) the beneficiary, being competent to
faith and without negligence. contract, consents to the delegation ;
or
(2) The powers conferred by subsection
(I) on two or more trustees acting together (e) the court so directs,
may be exercised by a sole acting trustee,
Explanation.—The appointment of an attorney or
when by the instrument of trust, if any, a agent or proxy to do an act merely ministerial
sole trustee is authorized to execute the and involving no independent discretion is not
trusts and powers thereof. a delegation within the meaning of this section.
(3) This section applies only if and as far Illustrations
as a contrary intention is not expressed in (a) A bequeaths certain property to B and C on certain
the instrument of trust if any, and shall have trusts to be executed by them or the survivor
of them or the assigns of such survivor. B dies.
effect subject to the terms of that instrument
C may bequeath the trust property to D and E
and to the provisions therein contained.
upon the trusts of A's will.
(4) Nothing in this section shall be (b) A is a trustee of certain property with power to sell
deemed to affect the application of the law the same. A may employ an auctioneer to
relating to the property of minors. effect the sale.
(c) A bequeaths to B fifty houses let at monthly rents in
Power to 46. When an authority to deal with the trust to collect the rents and pay them to C. B
several trustees trust property is given to several trustees may employ a proper person to collect these
of whom one
and one of them disclaims or dies, the rents.
disclaims or •
dies. authority may be exercised by the- 50. When there are more trustees than Co-trustees
continuing trustees, unless from the terms of
one, all must join in the execution of the trust, cannot act
the instrument of trust it is apparent that except where the instrument of trust otherwise singly.
the authority is to be exercised by a number
provides, or except when on good cause
in excess of the number of the remaining shown the court otherwise directs.
trustees.
51. Where a discretionary power Control of"
Suspension of 47. Where a decree has been made in a conferred on a trustee is not exercised discretionary
trustee's power suit for the execution of a trust, the trustee reasonably and in good faith, such power may power.
by decree.
must not exercise any of his powers except in be controlled by the court.
conformity with such decree, or with the
52. (1) In the absence of express Trustee may
sanction of the court by which the decree has
directions to the contrary contained in the not charge for
been made, or, where an appeal against the
instrument of trust, or of a contract to the services
decree is pending, of the Court of Appeal.
contrary entered into with the beneficiary, an
order of court, or express statutory provision
CHAPTER V
in that behalf, a trustee has no right to
OF THE DISABILITIES OF TRUSTEES remuneration for his trouble, skill, and loss of
time in executing the trust.
Trustee cannot 48. A trustee who has accepted the trust
renounce after cannot afterwards renounce it, except— (2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed
acceptance. to prejudice the right of any resident trustee
(a) with the permission of the court ; or actually managing the daily administration of
any religious foundation, in respect of which
(b) if the beneficiary is competent to
the remuneration of the trustee shall not have
contract, with his consent; or
been settled under section 108, to such
(c•) by virtue of a special power in the remuneration as has been in practice
instrument of trust. received :
Trustee cannot 49. A trustee cannot delegate his office or Provided that such remuneration shall in
delegate. any of his duties either to a co-trustee or to a no case exceed ten per centum of the gross
stranger, unless— income of the foundation.
IV/215
Cap.96] TRUSTS
Trustee may 53. A trustee may not use or deal with the gross amount to him. A on attaining
not use trust the trust property for his own profit or for majority may. as the person exclusively
property for any other purpose unconnected with the interested in the trust property, require the
his own profit. trustees to transfer it immediately to him.
trust.
(b) A bequeaths Rs. 10,000 to trustees upon trust to
Trustee for sale 54. No trustee whose duty it is to sell purchase an annuity for B. who has attained
or his agent trust property, and no agent employed by his majority and is otherwise competent to
may not buy. such trustee for the purpose of the sale may, contract. B may claim the Rs. 10.000.
directly or indirectly, buy the same or any
(c) A transfers certain properly to B and directs him
interest therein on his own account or as to sell or invest it for the benefit of C, who is
agent for a third person. competent to contract, C may elect to take
the property in its original character.
Trustee may 55. No trustee, and no person who has
not buy recently ceased to be a trustee, may, without 59. The beneficiary has a right, as Right to
beneficiary's against the trustee and all persons claiming inspect and
the permission of the court, buy or become
interest under him with notice of the trust, to take copies of
without mortgagee or lessee of the trust property or instrument of
permission. any part thereof ; and such permission shall inspect and take copies of the instrument of trust, accounts,
trust, the documents of title relating solely &c.
not be given unless the proposed purchase,
to the trust property, the accounts of the
mortgage, or lease is manifestly for the
trust property and the vouchers (if any) by
advantage of the beneficiary,
which they are supported, and the cases
Trustee for And no trustee whose duty it is to buy or submitted and opinions taken by the trustee
purchase. to obtain a mortgage or lease of particular for his guidance in the discharge of his duty.
property for 'the beneficiary may buy it or
any part thereof, or obtain a mortgage or 60. The beneficiary, if competent to Right to
lease of it or any part thereof for himself. contract, may transfer his interest, but transfer
, , , . , . , . . „ beneficial
subject to the law for the time being in force interest.
Co-trustees 56. A trustee or co-trustee whose duty it as to the circumstances and extent in and to
may not lend is to invest trust money on mortgage or which he may dispose of such interest.
to one of
personal security must not invest it on a
themselves.
mortgage by, or on the personal security of, 61. When no trustees are appointed, or Right to sue
himself or one of his co-trustees. all the trustees die, disclaim, or are for execution
of trust.
discharged, or where for any other reason
the execution of a trust by the trustee is or
CHAPTER VI
becomes impracticable, the beneficiary may
OF THE RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES institute a suit for the execution of the trust,
OF THE BENEFICIARY and the trust shall, so far as may be
possible, be executed by the court until the
Right to rents 57. The beneficiary has, subject to the appointment of a trustee or new trustee, or
and profits. provisions of the instrument of trust, a right until the execution of the trust becomes
to the rents and profits of the trust property. practicable.
Right to 58. The beneficiary is entitled to have 62. Subject to the provisions of the Right to
specific the intention of the author of the trust
instrument of trust, the beneficiary has aproper trustees.
execution.
specifically executed to the extent of the
right to require that the trust property shall
beneficiary's interest.
be properly protected and held and
administered by proper persons and by a
Right to And, where there is only one beneficiary
transfer of and he is competent to contract, or where proper number of such persons. ,
possession.
there are several beneficiaries and they are
competent to contract, and all of one mind, Explanation /.—The following are not proper
he or they may require the trustee to * persons within the meaning of this section:--
An alien enemy ; a person having an interest
transfer the trust property to him or them,
inconsistent with that of the beneficiary : a
or lo such person as he or they may direct.
person in insolvent circumstances ; a minor.
Illustrations
Explanation 2.—When the administration of the
(a) Certain Government securities are given to trust involves the receipt and custody of
trustees upon trust to accumulate the interest money, the number of trustees should be two
until A attains majority, and then to transfer at least.
IV/216
TRUSTS [Cap.96
Illustrations (a) account for the net profits of the
property,
(a) A. one of several beneficiaries, proves that B. the
trustee, has improperly disposed of part of the
(b) be charged with an occupation rent if
trust property. or that the property is in
he has been in actual possession of
danger from B's being in insolvent
circumstances. or that he is incapacitated the property, and
from acting as trustee. A may obtain a
receiver of the trust properly. (c) allow the beneficiary to deduct a
proportionate part of the purchase
(b) A bequeaths certain jewels to B in trust for C. B
money if the property has been
dies during A's lifetime ; then A dies. C is
deteriorated by the acts or omissions
entitled !o have the property conveyed to .1
trustee for him. of the trustee or purchaser.
(c•) A conveys certain properly to four trustee.- in trust
(2) Nothing in this section—
for B. Three of the trustees die. B may
institute a suit to have three new trustees
(a) impairs the rights of lessees and
appointed in the place of the deceased
others who, before the institution of
trustees,
a suit to have the property declared
(d) A conveys certain property to three trustees in
subject to the trust or re-transferred,
trust for B. All the trustees disclaim. B may
have contracted in good faith with
institute a suit to have three trustees
appointed in place . of the trustees so the trustee or purchaser ; or
disclaiming.
(b) entitles the beneficiary to have the
(e') A. a trustee for B. refuses to act. or is declared an
property declared subject to the trust
insolvent, or compounds with his creditors, or
suffers a co-trustee to commit a breach of or re-transferred where he, being
trust. B may institute a suit to have A competent to contract, has himself.
removed and a new trustee appointed in his without duress or undue influence
room. having been brought to bear on him,
Right 10 63. The beneficiary has a right to require ratified the sale to the trustee with
compel to that his trustee shall be compelled to perform full knowledge of the facts of the
perform any act
any particular act of his duly as such, case and of his rights as against the
of duty
and restrained from committing any trustee.
contemplated or probable breach of trust.
65. (I) Where trust property comes into Following trust
Illustrations the hands of a third person inconsistently properly into
... i i i" - • - the hands of
(a) A contracts with B to pay him monthly Rs. 100 for with the trust, the beneficiary may institute a third persons -
the benefit of C. B writes and signs a letter suit for a declaration that the property is into that into
declaring thai he will hold in trust tor C the comprised in the trust. which it has
money so 10 be paid, A fails to pay the money been converted.
in accordance with his contract- C may (2) Where the trustee has disposed of trust
compel B on a proper indemnity to allow C to
property, and the money or other property
sue on the contract in B's name.
which he has received therefor can be traced
(b) A is trustee of certain land. with a power to sell the in his hands or the hands of his legal
same and pay the proceeds to B and C
representative or legatee, the beneficiary has,
equally. A is about to make an improvident
in respect thereof, rights as nearly as may be
sale of the land. B may sue on behalf of
himself and C for an injunction to restrain A the same as his rights in respect of the
from making the sale. original trust property.
Wrongful 64. (1) Where a trustee has wrongfully
Illustrations
purchase by bought trust property, the beneficiary has a
trustee. {a) A. a trustee for B of Rs. 10,000 wrongfully invests
right to have the property declared subject to
the Rs. 10.000 in the purchase of certain land.
the trust, or re-transferred by the trustee if it
B is entitled to the land.
remains in his hands unsold, or, if it has been
(b) A. a trustee, wrongfully purchases land in his own
bought from him by any person with notice of
name. partly with his own money, partly with
the trust, by such person. But in such case the
money subject to a trust for B. B is entitled to
beneficiary must repay the purchase money a charge on the land for the amount of the
paid by the trustee, with interest and such trust money so misemployed,
other expenses (if any) as he has properly 66. (1) Nothing in section 65 entitles the Saving of rights
incurred in the preservation of the property ; beneficiary to any right in respect of property of certain
and the trustee or purchaser must— i•n t.1h- e hi- andJ s ofe— ' transferees.
IV/217
Cap.96] TRUSTS
(a) a transferee in good faith for retains all the assets in the business. 1 may
consideration without having notice compel him, as partner, to account for so
much of the profits as arc derived from A's
of the trust, either when the
share of the capital. B is also answerable to
purchase money was paid, or when
Z for the improper employment of A's
the conveyance was executed ; or assets.
(b) ii transferee for consideration from (A) A, a trader, bequeaths his property to B in trust
such a transferee. for C, appoints B his sole executor, and dies.
B enters into partnership with X and Y in
(2) A judgment-creditor of the trustee the same trade, and employs A's assets in the
partnership business. B gives an indemnity to
attaching and purchasing trust property is
X and Y against the claims of C. Here X and
not a transferee for consideration within the
Y arc jointly liable with B to C as having
meaning of this section. knowingly become parlies to the breach of
trust committed by B.
(3) Nothing in section 65 applies to
70. Where one of several beneficiaries Liability of
money or currency notes in the hands of a
being competent to contract— beneficiary
bona fide holder to whom they have passed joining on
in circulation, or to negotiable instruments (a) joins in committing a breach of breach of trust.
in the hands of a bona fide holder tor value,
trust ; or
or shall be deemed to affect sections 22 and
23 of the Sale of Goods Ordinance, or the (b) knowingly obtains .any advantage
rights of any holder in good faith for therefrom without the consent of
consideration of any document of title which the other beneficiaries ; or
by law passes the ownership of goods to
(c) becomes aware of a breach of trust
which it relates by endorsement or delivery,
committed or intended to be
or the liability of a person to whom a debt
committed, and either actually
or charge is transferred, or the right of a
conceals it, or does not within a
person who holds property under a title
reasonable time take proper steps to
declared indefeasible by statute or of his
protect the interests of the other
successor in title.
beneficiaries ; or
Acquisition by 67. Where a trustee wrongfully sells or
(d/) has deceived the trustee and thereby
trustee of trust otherwise transfers trust property and
property induced him to commit a breach of
afterwards himself becomes the owner of the
wrongfully
trust,
converted- property, the property again becomes
subject to the trust, notwithstanding any
the other beneficiaries are entitled to have
want of notice on the part of intervening
all his beneficial interest impounded as
transferees in good faith for consideration.
against him and all who claim under him
Right in case 68. Where the trustee wrongfully (otherwise than as transferees for
of blended mingles the trust property with his own, the consideration without notice of the breach)
property. until the loss caused by the breach has been
beneficiary is entitled to a charge on the
compensated.
whole fund for the amount due to him.
Wrongful 69. If a partner, being a trustee, 71. Every person to whom a beneficiary Rights and
employment by wrongfully employs trust property in the transfers his interests has the rights, and is liabilities of
partner trustee beneficiary's
business or on the account of the subject to the liabilities, of the beneficiary in
of trust , transferee.
property for partnership, no other partner is liable respect of such interest at the date of the
partnership therefor in his personal capacity to the transfer.
purposes.
beneficiaries unless he had notice of the
breach of trust. The partners having such
CHAPTER VII
notice are jointly and severally liable for the,
breach of trust. . OF VACATING THE OFFICE OF TRUSTEE
Illustrations 72. The office of a trustee is vacated by Office how
his death or by his discharge from his office. vacated.
(a) A and B are partners. A dies, having bequeathed
all his properly to B in trust for Z, and
73. A trustee may be discharged from Discharge of
appointed B his sole executor. B, instead of
his office only as follows :— trustee.
winding up the affairs of the partnership,
IV/218
