Cap. 96] TRUSTS
Bequest for 87. (1) Where a testator bequeaths (c) A, a partner, buys land in his own name with
illegal purpose. certain property upon trust, and the purpose funds belonging to the partnership. A holds
such land for the benefit of the partnership.
of the trust appears on the face of the will to
be unlawful, or during the testator's lifetime (d) A, a partner, employed on behalf of himself and
the legatee agrees with him to apply the his co-partners in negotiating the terms of a
lease, clandestinely stipulates with the lessor
property for an unlawful purpose, the
for payment to himself of a lakh of rupees. A
legatee must hold the property for the
holds the lakh for the benefit of the
benefit of the testator's legal representative. ' partnership.
Bequest of (2) Where property is bequeathed and the (e) A and B are partners- A dies. B, instead of
winding up the affairs of the partnership,
which revocation of the bequest is prevented by
revocation is retains all the assets in the business. B must
prevented by duress, the legatee must hold the property account to A's legal representative for the
duress. for the benefit of the testator's legal profits arising from A's share of the capital.
representative.
(f) A, an agent employed to obtain a lease for B,
obtains the lease for himself. A holds the
Transfer 88. Where property is transferred in
lease for the benefit of B.
pursuant to pursuance of a contract which is liable to
rescindable' (g) A, a guardian, buys up for himself incumb ranees
rescission or induced by fraud or mistake,
contract-
on his ward B's estate at an under-value. A
the transferee must, on receiving notice to
holds for the benefit of B the incumb ranees
that effect, hold the property for the benefit so bought, and can only charge him with
of the transferor, subject to repayment by what he has actually paid.
the latter of the consideration actually paid,
91. Where, by the exercise of undue Advantage
and subject to any compensation or other influence, any advantage is gained in gained by
relief to which the.transferee may be by law exercise of
derogation of the interests of another, the
undue
entitled.' person gaining such advantage without influence.
consideration, or with notice that such
Debtor 89. Where a debtor becomes the influence has been exercised, must hold the
becoming executor or other legal representative of his advantage for the benefit of the person
creditor's
creditor, he must hold the debt for the whose interests have been so prejudiced.
representative.
benefit of the persons interested therein.
92. Where a co-owner, mortgagee, or Advantage
Advantage 90. Where a trustee, executor, partner, other person with a qualified interest in any gained by
gained by agent, director of a company, legal adviser, property, by availing himself of his position qualified
fiduciary.
or other person bound in a fiduciary as such, gains an advantage in derogation of
character to protect the interests of another the rights of the other persons interested in
person, by availing himself of his character, the property, or where any such person, as
gains for himself any pecuniary advantage, or representing all persons interested in such
where any person so bound enters into any property, gains any advantage, he must
dealings under circumstances in which his hold, for the benefit of all persons so
own interests are, or may be, adverse to interested, the advantage so gained, but
those of such other person and thereby subject to repayment by such persons of
gains for himself a pecuniary advantage, he their due share of the expenses properly
incurred, and to an indemnity by the same
must hold for the benefit of such other
persons against liabilities properly
person the advantage so gained.
contracted, in gaining such advantage.
Illustrations
Illustration
(a) A, an executor, buys at an under-value from B, a
legatee, his claim under the will. B is
A mortgages land to B, who enters into possession. B
ignorant of the value of the bequest. A must
- allows taxes due on the land to fall into
hold for the benefit of B the difference arrear with a view to the land being put up
between the price and value. for sale and his becoming himself the
purchaser of it. The land is accordingly sold
(b) A, a trustee, retires from his trust in to B. Subject to the repayment of the
consideration of his successor paying him a amount due on the mortgage and of his
sum of money. A holds such money for the expenses properly incurred as mortgagee, B
benefit of his beneficiary. holds the land for the benefit of A.
IV/222
TRUSTS [Cap. 96
Property 93. Where a person- acquires property this Ordinance otherwise provided, is
acquired with with notice that another person has entered subject, so far as may be, to the same
notice of
into an existing contract affecting that liabilities and disabilities, as if he were a
existing
contract. property, of which specific performance trustee of the property for the person for
could be enforced, the former must hold the whose benefit he holds it:
property for the benefit of the latter to the
Provided that—
extent necessary to give effect to the
contract:
(a) where he rightfully cultivates the
property or employs it in trade or
Provided that in the case of a contract
business, he is entitled to reasonable
affecting immovable property, such contract
remuneration for his trouble, skill,
shall have been duly registered before such
and loss of time in such cultivation
acquisition.
or employment; and
Purchase by 94. Where a person contracts to buy
person property to be held on trust for certain (b) where he holds the property by virtue
contracting to of a contract with a person for
beneficiaries and buys the property
buy property
. whose benefit he holds it, or with
to be held on accordingly, he must hold the property for
trust. their benefit to the extent necessary to give anyone through whom such person
claims, he may, without the
effect to the contract.
permission of the court, buy or
Advantage 95. Where creditors compound the debts become lessee or mortgagee of the
secretly gained due to them, and one of such creditors, by a property or any part thereof.
by one of
secret arrangement with the debtor, gains an
several
compounding undue advantage over his co-creditors, he 98. Nothing contained in this Chapter Saving rights
creditors. must hold for the benefit of such creditors shall impair the rights of transferees in good of bona fide
purchasers.
faith for valuable consideration, or create an
the advantage so gained.
obligation in evasion of any law for the time
Constructive 96. In any case not coming within the being in force.
trusts in cases scope of any of the preceding sections
not expressly
where there is no trust, but the person CHAPTER X
provided for.
having possession of property has not the
CHARITABLE TRUSTS
whole beneficial interest therein, he must
hold the property for the benefit of the
99. (1) The expression " charitable Special
persons having such interest, or the residue
trust " includes any trust for the benefit of "definitions.
thereof (as the case may be), to the extent
the public or any section of the public
necessary to satisfy their just demands.
within or without Sri Lanka of any of the
following categories :—
Illustrations
(a) for the relief of poverty ; or
(a) A, an executor, distributes the assets of his
testator B to the legatees without having
(b) for the advancement of education or
paid the whole of B's debts. The legatees
knowledge ; or
hold for the benefit of B's creditors, to the
extent necessary to satisfy their just
(c) for the advancement of religion or the
demands, the assets so distributed.
maintenance of religious rites and
(b) A by mistake assumes the character of a trustee
practices ; or
for B, and under colour of the trust receives
certain money. B may compel him to (d) for any other purposes beneficial or of
account for such moneys. interest to mankind not falling
(c) A makes a gift of a lakh of rupees to B, within the preceding categories.
reserving to himself, with B's assent, power
to revoke at pleasure the gift as to Rs. (2) The expression " adaptation " with
10,000, The gift is revoked by A as to Rs. reference to a trust means adaptation of the
10,000 and B thereupon holds that sum for "trust in such a manner as to carry out the
the benefit of A.
wishes of the author of the trust as nearly as
Obligor's 97. The person holding property in practicable, according to the doctrine of
duties, accordance with any of the preceding cypres, where it is not possible to carry out
liabilities, and
sections of this Chapter must, so far as may those wishes in the exact manner prescribed
disabilities.
be, perform the same duties, and, save as in by the instrument of trust.
1V/223
