Cap.96] TRUSTS
(d) A bequeaths certain property to B, desiring him Illustrations
to divide the bulk of it among C's children.
This does not create a trust, for the trust (a) A bequeaths certain property to B and C. his
property is not indicated with sufficient executors, as trustees for D. B and C prove
. certainty. A's will. This is in itself an acceptance of the
trust, and B and C hold the properly in trust
(e) A bequeaths a shop and stock in trade to B, on forD.
condition that he pays A's debts and a legacy
to C. This is a condition, not a trust, for A's (b) A transfers certain property to B in trust to sell il
creditors and C. and to pay out of the proceeds A's debts- B
accepts the trust and sells the property. So
Who may 7. A trust may be created-
far as regards B, a trust of the proceeds is
create trusts.
created for A's creditors.
(a) by every person competent to
contract ; and (c) A bequeaths a lakh of rupees to B upon certain
trusts and appoints him his executor. B
(b) with the permission of the court by severs the lakh from the general assets and
or on behalf of a minor ; appropriates it 10 the specific purpose. This
is an acceptance of the trust.
but subject in each case to the law for the
time being in force as to the circumstances CHAPTER III
and extent in and to which the author of the
trust may dispose of the trust property. OF THE DUTIES AND LIABILITIES OF
TRUSTEES
Subject of 8. The subject-matter of a trust must be
trust. property transferable to the beneficiary. It 11. (I) The trustee is bound to fulfil the Trustee to
must not be a merely beneficial interest purpose of the trust, and to obey the execute trust.
under a subsisting trust. directions of the author of the trust given at
the time of its creation, except as modified
Who may be 9. (1) Every person capable of holding by the consent of all the beneficiaries being
beneficiary. property may be a beneficiary. competent to contract,
Disclaimer by (2) A proposed beneficiary may renounce (2) Where the beneficiary is incompetent
beneficiary. his interest under the trust by disclaimer to contract, his consent may, for the
addressed to the trustee, or by setting up, purposes of this section, be given by the
with notice of the trust, a claim inconsistent
court.
therewith.
Explanation.—Unless a contrary intention be
Who may be 10. (1) Every person capable of holding expressed, the purpose of a trust for the
trustee. property may be a trustee ; but, where the payment of debts shall be deemed to be—
trust involves the exercise of discretion, he
(a) to pay only the debts of the author of the trust
cannot execute it unless he is competent to existing and recoverable at the date of the
contract. instrument of trust, or, when such instrument
is a will, at the date of his death, and
No one bound (2) No one is bound to accept a trust.
(b) in the case of debts not bearing interest, to make
to accept trust.
such payment without interest.
Acceptance of (3) A trust is accepted by any words or
Illustrations
trust. acts of the trustee indicating with reasonable
(a) A, a trustee, is simply authorized to sell certain
certainty such acceptance.
land by public auction- He cannot sell the
land by private contract.
Disclaimer of (4) Instead of accepting a trust, the
trust. intended trustee may, within a reasonable (b).A, a trustee of certain land for X, Y, and Z, is
authorized to sell the land to B for a specified
period, disclaim it, and such disclaimer shall
sum. X, Y, and Z, being competent to '
prevent the trust property from vesting in contract, consent that A may sell the land to
him. C for a less sum. A may sell the land
accordingly.
(5) A disclaimer by one of two or more (c) A, a trustee for B and her children, is directed by
co-trustees vests the trust property in the the author of the trust to lend, on B's request,
other or others, and makes him or them sole trust property to B's husband C, on the
security of his bond. C becomes insolvent, and
trustee or trustees from the date of the
B requests A to make the loan- A may refuse
creation of the trust.
to make il.
IV/208
TRUSTS [Cap.96
Trustee to 12. A trustee is bound to acquaint (b) A, a trustee of leasehold property, directs the
inform himself himself, as soon as possible, with the nature tenant to pay the rents, on account of the
of state of trust and circumstances of the trust property ; to trust to a banker, B, then in credit. The rents
property. are accordingly paid to B, and A leaves the
obtain, where necessary, a transfer of the
money with B only till wanted. Before the
trust property to himself; and (subject to
money is drawn out, B becomes insolvent. A,
the provisions of the instrument of trust) to having had no reason to believe that B was
get in trust moneys invested on insufficient in insolvent circumstances, is not bound to
or hazardous security. make good the loss.
(c) A, a trustee of two debts for B, releases one and
Illustrations compounds the other, in good faith, and
reasonably believing that it is for B's interest
' (a) The trust property is a debt outstanding on
to do so. A is not bound to make good any
personal security. The instrument of trust
loss caused thereby to B.
gives the trustee no discretionary power to
leave the debt so outstanding. The trustee's (d) A, a trustee directed to sell the trust property by
duly is to recover the de:bt without auction, sells the same, but does not
unnecessary delay. advertise the sale, and otherwise fails in
reasonable diligence in inviting competition.
(b) The trust property is money in the hands of one
A is bound to make good the loss caused
or two co-trustees. No discretionary power is
thereby to the beneficiary.
given by the instrument of trust. The other
co-trustee must not allow the former to (e) A, a trustee for B, in execution of his trust, sells
retain the money for a longer period than the the trust property, but from want of due
circumstances of the case required. diligence on his part fails to receive part of
the purchase money. A is bound to make
Trustee to 13. A trustee is bound to maintain and
good the loss thereby caused to B.
protect title to defend all such suits, and (subject to the
trust property.
provisions of the instrument of trust) to take
(f) A, a trustee for B of a policy of insurance, has
such other steps as, regard being had to the funds in band for payment of the premiums.
nature and amount or value of the trust A neglects to pay the premiums, and the
property, may be reasonably requisite for policy is consequently forfeited. A is bound
to make good the loss to B.
the preservation of the trust property and
the assertion or protection of the. title
(g•) A bequeaths certain moneys to B and C as
thereto. .trustees, and authorizes them to continue
. trust moneys upon the personal security of a
Illustration certain firm in which A had himself invested
• : them. A dies. and a change takes place in the
The trust property is immovable property, which has firm. B and C must not permit the moneys to
been given to the author of the trust by an remain upon the personal security of the new
unregistered instrument. The trustee's duty is firm.
to cause the instrument to be registered.
Trustee not lo 14. The trustee must not for himself or (h) A. a trustee for B. allows the trust to be executed
set up title another set up or aid any title to the trust solely by his co-trustee C, C misapplies the
adverse to property adverse to the interest of the trust properly. A is personally answerable
beneficiary. .for the loss resulting to B.
beneficiary.
Care required 15. A trustee is bound, subject to the 16. Whe.re t he trust is created for the conversion of
from trustee. provisions of the instrument of trust, to deal benefit of several persons in succession, and perishable
with the trust property as carefully as a man the trust property is of a wasting nature or a property
of ordinary prudence would deal with such future or reversionary interest, the trustee is
property if it were his own ; and, in the bound, unless an intention to the contrary
absence of a contract to the contrary, a may be inferred from the instrument of
trustee so dealing is not responsible for the trust, or unless the court otherwise directs,
loss, destruction, or deterioration of the to convert the property into property of a
trust property. permanent and immediately profitable
character.
IlIusiraiions
(a) A. living in Colombo, is a trustee for B. living in 17. (I) Wheere there are more Trustee to be
London. A remits trust funds to B_ by bills beneficiaries than one, the trustee is bound impartial
drawn by a person of undoubted credit in to be impartial,, and must not execute the
favour of the trustee as such and payable at
trust for the advantage of one at the expense
London. The bills are dishonoured. A is not
of another.
bound to make go.od the loss,
IV/209
Cap.96] TRUSTS
(2) Where the trustee has a discretionary (d) on any other security expressly
power, nothing in this section shall be deemed authorized by the instrument of trust
to authorize the court to control the exercise or by any rule which the Minister
reasonably and in good faith of such may from time to time prescribe in
discretion.. that behalf.
Illustration 21. Nothing in section 20 shall apply to Saving as to
investments made before the commencement existing
A, a trustee for B, C, and D, is empowered to choose investments and
of this Ordinance, or shall be deemed to
between several specified modes of investing investments in
the trust property. A in good faith chooses one preclude a deposit of trust money in a Government
of these modes. The court will not interfere, Government Savings Bank or in the National Savings Bank
although the result of the choice may be to Savings Bank. or National
Savings Bank.
vary the relative rights of B, C, and D.
[§2.7 of 1968.]
Trustees to 18. Where the trust is created for the [§89,30 of
1971.]
prevent waste, benefit of several persons in succession, and
one of them is in possession of the trust 22. Where a trustee directed to sell within Sale by trustee
a specified time extends such time, the burden directed to sell
property, if he commits, or threatens to
within specified
of proving, as between himself and the
commit, any act which is destructive or time.
beneficiary, that the latter is not prejudiced by
permanently injurious thereto, the trustee is
the extension lies upon the trustee, unless the
bound to take measures to prevent such act.
extension has been authorized by the court.
Accounts and 19. A trustee is bound—
information. Illustration
(a) to keep clear and accurate accounts of
the trust property, and A bequeaths property to B, directing him with all
convenient speed and within five years to sell
(b) at all reasonable times, at the request of it, and apply the proceeds for the benefit of C.
In the exercise of reasonable discretion, B
the beneficiary, to furnish him with
postpones the sale for six years. The sale is not
full and accurate information as to
thereby rendered invalid, but C, alleging thai
the amount and state of the trust he has been injured by the postponement,
property. institutes a suit against B to obtain
compensation. In such suit the burden of
Investment of 20. Where the trust property consists of proving that C has not been injured lies on B.
trust money, money and cannot be applied immediately or
23. (1) Where the trustee commits a Liability for
at an early date to the purposes of the trust,
breach of trust, he is liable to make good the breach of trust-
the trustee is bound (subject to any direction
loss which the trust property or the
contained in the instrument of trust) to invest
beneficiary has thereby sustained, unless the
the money on the following securities, and on
beneficiary has by fraud induced the trustee to
no others :—
commit the breach, or the beneficiary, being
competent to contract, has himself, without
(a) in promissory notes, debentures, stock,
duress or undue influence having been
or other securities of the Government
brought to bear on him, concurred in the
of Sri Lanka ;
breach, or subsequently acquiesced therein
with full knowledge of the facts of the case
(b) on a first mortgage of immovable
and of his rights as against the trustee.
property situated in Sri Lanka ;
(2) A trustee committing a breach of trust is
Provided that the property is not a
not liable to pay interest except in the
leasehold for a term of years, and
following cases :—
that the value of the property exceeds
by one-third, or if consisting wholly (a) where he has actually received
or mainly of buildings, exceeds by interest ;
one-half the mortgage moneys;
•(b) where the breach consists in
unreasonable delay in paying trust
(c) in promissory notes, debentures, stock
money to the beneficiary ;
or other securities issued by a,
Government corporation, institution (c) where the trustee ought to have
or agency and guaranteed by the received interest, but has not done
Government of Sri Lanka ; so :
IV/210
TRUSTS [Cap. 96
(d) where he may be fairly presumed to compound interest, or with the amount of
have received interest; such securities as he might have purchased
with the trust money when the investment
(e) where the breach consists in failure to should have been made, together with the
invest trust money and to accumulate amount of the accumulation which would have
arisen from a proper investment of the
the interest or dividend thereon, he is
intermediate dividends.
liable to account for compound
interest (with half-yearly rests) at the (g) Trust property is invested in one of the securities
mentioned in section 20, clause (a), (c), or ((d).
same rate ;
The trustee sells such security for some
purpose not authorized by the terms of the
(f) where the breach consists in the
instrument of trust. He is liable, at the option
employment of trust property or the
of the beneficiary, either to replace the security
proceeds thereof in trade or business, with the intermediate dividends and interest
he is liable to account, at the option thereon, or to account for the proceeds of the
of the beneficiary, either for sale with interest thereon.
compound interest (with half-yearly
(h) The trust property consists of land. The trustee sells
rests) at the same rate or for the net the land to a purchaser for a consideration
profits made by such employment. without notice of the trust. The trustee is
liable, at the option of the beneficiary, to
(3) He is liable in case (a) to account for the purchase other land of equal value to be
interest actually received, and in cases (b), (c), settled upon the like trust, or to be charged
with the proceeds of the sale with interest.
and (d) to account for simple interest at the
rate of six per centum per annum, unless the 24. A trustee who is liable for a loss No set-off
court otherwise directs. occasioned by a breach of trust in respect of allowed to
trustee
one portion of the trust property cannot set
Illustrations off against his liability a gain which has
accrued to another portion of the trust
(a) A trustee improperly leaves trust property
outstanding, and it is consequently lost ; he is property through another and distinct breach
liable tomake good the property lost, but he is of trust.
not liable to pay interest thereon.
25. Where a trustee succeeds another, he Non-liability for
(b) A bequeaths a house to B in trust to sell it and pay
is not, as such, liable for the acts or defaults predecessor's
the proceeds to C. B neglects to sell the house default.
of his predecessor.
for a great length of time, whereby the house is
deteriorated and its market price falls. B is
26. (1) Subject to the provisions of Non-liability for
answerable to C for the loss.
sections 13 and 15, one trustee is not, as such, co-trustee's
(c) A trustee is guilty of unreasonable delay in investing liable for a breach of trust committed by his default.
trust money in accordance with section 20, or
co-trustee :
in paying it to the beneficiary. The trustee is
liable to pay interest thereon for the period of
Provided that, in the absence of an express
the delay;
declaration to the contrary in the instrument
(d) The duty of the trustee is to invest trust money in of trust, a trustee is so liable—
any of the securities mentioned in section 20.
Instead of so doing, he retains the money in (a) where he has delivered trust property to
his hands. He is liable, at the option of the
his co-trustee without seeing to its
beneficiary, to be charged either with the
proper application ;
amount of the principal money and interest, or
with the amount of such securities as he might
(b) where he allows his co-trustee to receive
have purchased with the trust money when the
investment should have been made, and the trust property and fails to make due
intermediate dividends and interest thereon. inquiry as to the co-trustee's dealings
(e) The instrument of trust directs the trustee to invest therewith, or allows him to retain it
trust money either in any such securities or on longer than the circumstances of the
mortgage of immovable property. The trustee case reasonably require ;
does neither. He is liable for the principal
money and interest. (c) where he becomes aware of a breach of
(f) The instrument of trust directs the trustee to invest trust committed or intended by his
trust money in any of such securities and to co-trustee, and either actively
accumulate the dividends thereon. The trustee conceals it, or does not within a
disregards the direction. He is liable at the
reasonable time take proper steps to
option of the beneficiary, to be charged either
protect the beneficiary's interest.
with the amount of the principal money and
1V/211
