Cap.96] TRUSTS
(a) a transferee in good faith for retains all the assets in the business. 1 may
consideration without having notice compel him, as partner, to account for so
much of the profits as arc derived from A's
of the trust, either when the
share of the capital. B is also answerable to
purchase money was paid, or when
Z for the improper employment of A's
the conveyance was executed ; or assets.
(b) ii transferee for consideration from (A) A, a trader, bequeaths his property to B in trust
such a transferee. for C, appoints B his sole executor, and dies.
B enters into partnership with X and Y in
(2) A judgment-creditor of the trustee the same trade, and employs A's assets in the
partnership business. B gives an indemnity to
attaching and purchasing trust property is
X and Y against the claims of C. Here X and
not a transferee for consideration within the
Y arc jointly liable with B to C as having
meaning of this section. knowingly become parlies to the breach of
trust committed by B.
(3) Nothing in section 65 applies to
70. Where one of several beneficiaries Liability of
money or currency notes in the hands of a
being competent to contract— beneficiary
bona fide holder to whom they have passed joining on
in circulation, or to negotiable instruments (a) joins in committing a breach of breach of trust.
in the hands of a bona fide holder tor value,
trust ; or
or shall be deemed to affect sections 22 and
23 of the Sale of Goods Ordinance, or the (b) knowingly obtains .any advantage
rights of any holder in good faith for therefrom without the consent of
consideration of any document of title which the other beneficiaries ; or
by law passes the ownership of goods to
(c) becomes aware of a breach of trust
which it relates by endorsement or delivery,
committed or intended to be
or the liability of a person to whom a debt
committed, and either actually
or charge is transferred, or the right of a
conceals it, or does not within a
person who holds property under a title
reasonable time take proper steps to
declared indefeasible by statute or of his
protect the interests of the other
successor in title.
beneficiaries ; or
Acquisition by 67. Where a trustee wrongfully sells or
(d/) has deceived the trustee and thereby
trustee of trust otherwise transfers trust property and
property induced him to commit a breach of
afterwards himself becomes the owner of the
wrongfully
trust,
converted- property, the property again becomes
subject to the trust, notwithstanding any
the other beneficiaries are entitled to have
want of notice on the part of intervening
all his beneficial interest impounded as
transferees in good faith for consideration.
against him and all who claim under him
Right in case 68. Where the trustee wrongfully (otherwise than as transferees for
of blended mingles the trust property with his own, the consideration without notice of the breach)
property. until the loss caused by the breach has been
beneficiary is entitled to a charge on the
compensated.
whole fund for the amount due to him.
Wrongful 69. If a partner, being a trustee, 71. Every person to whom a beneficiary Rights and
employment by wrongfully employs trust property in the transfers his interests has the rights, and is liabilities of
partner trustee beneficiary's
business or on the account of the subject to the liabilities, of the beneficiary in
of trust , transferee.
property for partnership, no other partner is liable respect of such interest at the date of the
partnership therefor in his personal capacity to the transfer.
purposes.
beneficiaries unless he had notice of the
breach of trust. The partners having such
CHAPTER VII
notice are jointly and severally liable for the,
breach of trust. . OF VACATING THE OFFICE OF TRUSTEE
Illustrations 72. The office of a trustee is vacated by Office how
his death or by his discharge from his office. vacated.
(a) A and B are partners. A dies, having bequeathed
all his properly to B in trust for Z, and
73. A trustee may be discharged from Discharge of
appointed B his sole executor. B, instead of
his office only as follows :— trustee.
winding up the affairs of the partnership,
IV/218
TRUSTS [Cap.96
(a) by the extinction of the trust ; consent of the court) the retiring
trustees, if they all retire
(b) by the completion of his duties
simultaneously, or (with the like
under the trust ;
consent) the last retiring trustee.
(c) by such means as may be prescribed
(2) Every such appointment shall be by
by the instrument of trust or by any
writing under the hand of the person
scheme under this Ordinance ;
making it, and shall be notarially executed.
(d) by appointment under this
(3) Every instrument by which any such
Ordinance of a new trustee in his
appointment is made, in so far as it affects
place ;
immovable property, shall contain the
particulars required by section 13 of the
(e) by consent of himself and the
Registration of Documents Ordinance and
beneficiary, or, where there are
shall be deemed to be an instrument
more beneficiaries than one, by the
affecting land for the purposes of the said
consent of all the beneficiaries being
Ordinance :
competent to contract ; or
Provided that no deed of appointment of
by the court.
(f)
a trustee of any charitable trust shall be
Pelilion to be 74. Notwithstanding the provisions of deemed to be invalidated by reason of the
discharged section 11, every trustee may apply by fact that it does not contain the said
from trust-
petition to the court to be discharged from particulars, or shall be liable to be defeated
his office ; and, if the court finds that there by the registration of any subsequent deed,
is sufficient reason for such discharge, it order, or other instrument under section 7
may discharge him accordingly, and direct of the said Ordinance.
his costs to be paid out of the trust
(4) On an appointment of a new trustee,
property. But where there is no such reason,
the number of trustees may be increased.
the court shall not discharge him, unless a
proper person can be found to take his
(5) The provisions of this section relative
place.
to a trustee who is dead include the case of a
Appointment 75. (1) Whenever any person appointed person nominated trustee in a will but dying
of new trustees a trustee disclaims, or any trustee, either before the testator, and those relative to a
on death. &c, original or substituted, dies, or is absent continuing trustee include a refusing or
from Sri Lanka for such a continuous period retiring trustee if willing to act in the
and under such circumstances that, in the execution of the power.
opinion of the court, it is desirable, in the
76. (1) Whenever any such vacancy or Appointment
interests of the trust, that his office should
disqualification occurs, and it is found not by court.
be declared vacant, or is declared an
reasonably practicable to appoint a new
insolvent, or desires to be discharged from
trustee under section 75, or where for any
the trust, or refuses or is or becomes, in the
other reason the due execution of the trust
opinion of the court, unfit or personally
is or becomes impracticable, the beneficiary
incapable to act in the trust, or accepts an
may, without instituting a suit, apply by
inconsistent trust, a new trustee may be
petition to the court for the appointment of
appointed in his place by—
a trustee or a new trustee, and the court
(a) the person nominated for that purpose may appoint ,a trustee or a new trustee
by the instrument of trust (if any) ; accordingly.
or
(2) In appointing new trustees, the court Rules for
(b) if there be no such person, or no such shall have regard— selecting new
trustees.
person able and willing to act, the
(a) to the wishes of the author of the trust
author of the trust if he be alive and
as expressed in or to be inferred
competent to contract, or the
from the instrument of trust;
surviving or continuing trustees or
trustee for the time being, or legal (b) to the wishes of the person, if any,
representative of the last surviving empowered to appoint new
and continuing trustee, or (with the trustees ;
16- IV/219
Cap.96] TRUSTS
(c) to the question whether the instrument or order shall have been given by
appointment will promote or or on behalf of the new trustee so appointed
impede the execution of the trust; to the person or authority in charge of the
and register or book in which such stocks,
shares, or securities, as the case may be, are
(d) where there are more beneficiaries
entered, and upon such notice in writing
than one, to the interests of all such
being given, and on reasonable proof being
beneficiaries.
furnished that such stocks, shares, or
securities form pan of the said trust
(3) Every order of appointment made
property, the new trustee shall be entitled to
under this section shall, in so far as it affects
a transfer into his name of any such stocks,
immovable property, contain the particulars
shares, or securities, and to the receipt of all
required by section 13 of the Registration of
dividends, interest, or other sums due, or to
Documents Ordinance and section 29 of the
become due, in respect of any such stocks.
said Ordinance shall apply to every such
shares, or securities.
order in the same manner as if it were an
instrument which affects land ;
78- On the death or discharge of one of Survival of
Provided that no order of appointment of several co-trustees the trust survives, and the trust-
a trustee of any charitable trust under this trust property passes to the others, unless
section shall be deemed to be invalidated by the instrument of trust expressly declares
reason of the fact that it does not contain otherwise.
the said particulars, or shall be liable to be
defeated by the registration of any.
CHAPTER VIII
subsequent deed, order, or other instrument
under section 7 of the said Ordinance.
OF THE EXTINCTION OF TRUSTS
Vesting of trust 77. (1) Whenever any new trustee is 79. A trust is extinguished— Trust how
property in appointed under section 75 or section 76, or extinguished.
new trustees-
under or in pursuance of any other (a) when its purpose is completely
provision of this Ordinance, all the trust fulfilled ; or
property for the time being vested in the
(b) when its purpose becomes unlawful;
surviving or continuing trustees or trustee,
or
or in the legal representatives of any trustee,
and all the rights of suit in relation thereto (c) subject to the powers of the court
of the trustee in whose place the under Chapter X and to section 110
appointment is made, shall become vested in (4), when the fulfilment of its
such new trustee, either solely or jointly purpose becomes impossible by
with the surviving or continuing trustees or destruction of the trust property or
trustee, as the case may require. otherwise ; or
Powers of new (2) Every new trustee so appointed, and (d) when the trust, being revocable, is
trustees. every trustee appointed by a court cither
expressly revoked.
before or after the passing of this
Ordinance, shall have the same powers, 80. (1) A trust created by will may be Revocation of
authorities, and discretions, and shall in all revoked at the pleasure of the testator. trust'
respect act as if he had been originally
(2) A trust created otherwise than by will
nominated a trustee by the author of the
can be revoked only—
trust.
(a) where all the beneficiaries are
(3) Where any trust property comprises
« competent to contract, by their
any stocks or any shares or securities
consent ,
transferable in any book kept by any
company or society, or any shares in any (b) where the trust has been declared by
ship registered under the law relating to a non-testimentary instrument or by
merchant shipping, an instrument or order word of mouth, in exercise of a
of appointment shall not take effect so far power of revocation expressly
as it relates thereto, unless and until notice reserved to the author of the trust;
in writing of the appointment under such or
IV/220
TRUSTS [Cap.96
(c) where the trust is for the payment of 84. Where property is transferred to one Transfer to one
the debts of the author of the trust, person for a consideration paid or provided for
consideration
and has not been communicated to by another person, and it appears that such
paid by
the creditors, at the pleasure of the other person did not intend to pay or provide another.
author of the trust. such consideration for the benefit of the
transferee, the transferee must hold the
Illustration property for the benefit of the person paying
or providing the consideration.
A conveys properly to B in trust to sell the same and
pay out of the proceeds the claims of A's 85. Where a trust is incapable of being Trust incapable
creditors. A reserves no power of revocation. executed, or where the trust is completely of execution or
if no communication has been made to the executed
executed without exhausting the trust
creditors. A may revoke the trust. But if the without
creditors are parties to the arrangement, the property, the trustee, in the absence of a exhausting trust
trust cannot be revoked without their direction to the contrary, must hold the trust property.
consent. property, or so much thereof as is
unexhausted, for the benefit of the author of
Revocation not 81. No trust can be revoked by the
the trust or his legal representative.
to defeat what author of the trust so as to defeat or
trustees have
prejudice what the trustees may have duly Illustrations
duly done.
done in execution of the trust.
(a) A conveys certain land to B—
" Upon trust ", and no trust is declared ; or
CHAPTER IX " Upon trust to be thereafter declared ", and no
such declaration is ever made ; or
CONSTRUCTIVE TRUSTS
Upon trusts that are too vague to be executed ; or
Where 82. An obligation in the nature of a Upon trusts that become incapable of taking
obligation in trust (hereinafter referred to as a effect; or
nature of trust
" constructive trust ") is created in the "In trust for C ", and C renounces his interest
is created.
following cases. under the trust.
In each of these cases B holds the land for the benefit
Where it does 83. Where the owner of property of A.
not appear that transfers or bequeaths it, and it cannot
transferor (b) A transfers Rs. 10,000 in the four per cents, to B, in
reasonably be inferred consistently with the
intended to trust to pay the interest annually accruing due
dispose of attendant circumstances that he intended to . to C for her life. A dies- Then C dies. B, holds
beneficial dispose of the beneficial interest therein, the the fund for the benefit of A's legal
interest. representatives.
transferee or legatee must hold such
property for the benefit of the owner or his (c) A conveys land to B upon trust to sell it and apply
one moiety of the proceeds for certain
legal representative.
charitable purposes, and the other for the
maintenance of a particular form of worship.
Illustrations
B sells the land, but the charitable purposes
(a) A conveys land to B without consideration and wholly fail, and the maintenance of the
worship does not exhaust the second moiety of
declares no trust of any part. It cannot,
the proceeds- B holds the first moiety and the
consistently with the circumstances under
part unapplied of the second moiety for the
which the transfer is made, reasonably be
benefit of A or his legal representative.
inferred thai A intended to transfer the
beneficial interest in the land. B holds the (d) A bequeaths Rs. 10,000 to B, to be laid out in
land for the benefit of A. buying land to be conveyed for purposes
which either wholly or partially fail to take
(b) A transfers certain stock belonging to him into the effect. B holds for the benefit of A's legal
joint names of himself and B. It cannot, representative the undisposed of interest in the
consistently with the circumstances under money or land, if purchased.
which the transfer is made, reasonably be
86. Where the owner of property transfers Transfer for
inferred that A intended to transfer the
beneficial interest in the stock during his life. it to another for an illegal purpose, and such illegal purpose.
A and B hold the stock for the benefit of A purpose is not carried out into execution, or
during his life. the transferor is not as guilty as the transferee,
(c) A makes a gift of certain land to his wife B. She or the effect of permitting the transferee to
takes the beneficial interest in the land free retain the property might be to defeat the
from any trust in favour of A, for it may provisions of any law, the transferee must
reasonably be inferred from the
hold the property for the benefit of the
circumstances that the gift was for B's
transferor.
benefit.
IV/221
Cap. 96] TRUSTS
Bequest for 87. (1) Where a testator bequeaths (c) A, a partner, buys land in his own name with
illegal purpose. certain property upon trust, and the purpose funds belonging to the partnership. A holds
such land for the benefit of the partnership.
of the trust appears on the face of the will to
be unlawful, or during the testator's lifetime (d) A, a partner, employed on behalf of himself and
the legatee agrees with him to apply the his co-partners in negotiating the terms of a
lease, clandestinely stipulates with the lessor
property for an unlawful purpose, the
for payment to himself of a lakh of rupees. A
legatee must hold the property for the
holds the lakh for the benefit of the
benefit of the testator's legal representative. ' partnership.
Bequest of (2) Where property is bequeathed and the (e) A and B are partners- A dies. B, instead of
winding up the affairs of the partnership,
which revocation of the bequest is prevented by
revocation is retains all the assets in the business. B must
prevented by duress, the legatee must hold the property account to A's legal representative for the
duress. for the benefit of the testator's legal profits arising from A's share of the capital.
representative.
(f) A, an agent employed to obtain a lease for B,
obtains the lease for himself. A holds the
Transfer 88. Where property is transferred in
lease for the benefit of B.
pursuant to pursuance of a contract which is liable to
rescindable' (g) A, a guardian, buys up for himself incumb ranees
rescission or induced by fraud or mistake,
contract-
on his ward B's estate at an under-value. A
the transferee must, on receiving notice to
holds for the benefit of B the incumb ranees
that effect, hold the property for the benefit so bought, and can only charge him with
of the transferor, subject to repayment by what he has actually paid.
the latter of the consideration actually paid,
91. Where, by the exercise of undue Advantage
and subject to any compensation or other influence, any advantage is gained in gained by
relief to which the.transferee may be by law exercise of
derogation of the interests of another, the
undue
entitled.' person gaining such advantage without influence.
consideration, or with notice that such
Debtor 89. Where a debtor becomes the influence has been exercised, must hold the
becoming executor or other legal representative of his advantage for the benefit of the person
creditor's
creditor, he must hold the debt for the whose interests have been so prejudiced.
representative.
benefit of the persons interested therein.
92. Where a co-owner, mortgagee, or Advantage
Advantage 90. Where a trustee, executor, partner, other person with a qualified interest in any gained by
gained by agent, director of a company, legal adviser, property, by availing himself of his position qualified
fiduciary.
or other person bound in a fiduciary as such, gains an advantage in derogation of
character to protect the interests of another the rights of the other persons interested in
person, by availing himself of his character, the property, or where any such person, as
gains for himself any pecuniary advantage, or representing all persons interested in such
where any person so bound enters into any property, gains any advantage, he must
dealings under circumstances in which his hold, for the benefit of all persons so
own interests are, or may be, adverse to interested, the advantage so gained, but
those of such other person and thereby subject to repayment by such persons of
gains for himself a pecuniary advantage, he their due share of the expenses properly
incurred, and to an indemnity by the same
must hold for the benefit of such other
persons against liabilities properly
person the advantage so gained.
contracted, in gaining such advantage.
Illustrations
Illustration
(a) A, an executor, buys at an under-value from B, a
legatee, his claim under the will. B is
A mortgages land to B, who enters into possession. B
ignorant of the value of the bequest. A must
- allows taxes due on the land to fall into
hold for the benefit of B the difference arrear with a view to the land being put up
between the price and value. for sale and his becoming himself the
purchaser of it. The land is accordingly sold
(b) A, a trustee, retires from his trust in to B. Subject to the repayment of the
consideration of his successor paying him a amount due on the mortgage and of his
sum of money. A holds such money for the expenses properly incurred as mortgagee, B
benefit of his beneficiary. holds the land for the benefit of A.
IV/222
