TRUSTS [Cap.96
(g) awarding damages and costs "against (a) that the subject-matter of the plaint is
any such trustee, manager, one that calls for the consideration
superintendent, or member of a of the court ; and
committee in respect of any such
misfeasance, breach of trust, or (b) either that it has not proved possible
neglect of duty ; to bring about an amicable
settlement of the questions
(h) directing the removal of any trustee,
involved, or that the assistance of
manager, superintendent, or
the court is required for the purpose
member of a committee, and, if
of giving effect to any amicable
necessary, directing the
settlement that has been arrived at.
appointment of any new trustee,
manager, superintendent, or
(4) It shall be the duty of the Government
member of a committee ;
Agent, in any case in which he shall have
(i) directing the specific performance of good reason to believe that the persons
any act by any trustee* manager, presenting such petition or any five of them
superintendent, or member of a are persons interested within the meaning of
committee ; subsection (2) of this section, for which
purpose he may require to be satisfied by
(j) granting such further or other relief as
affidavit or otherwise, to appoint for the
the nature of the case may require.
purposes of the inquiry a commissioner or
(2) The interest required in order to commissioners whom he may consider to be
entitle a person to sue under this section a person or persons of acknowledged
need not be a pecuniary or immediate standing and repute in the general or local
interest, or such an interest as would entitle religious community concerned ,
the person suing to take any part in the
management or superintendence of the Provided that the Government Agent may
trust. Any person who is connected with the appoint himself as the commissioner or as
trust as donor, or by family or hereditary one of the commissioners ;
interests, or who for a period of not less
than twelve months has been in the habit of
Provided further, that the Government
attending at the performance of the worship
Agent may require the petitioners to deposit
or services of, or connected with, the place
with him an amount sufficient to cover the
or establishment in question, or of
reasonable expenses of the commissioner or
contributing to the general or any special
commissioners in respect of travelling
expenses incidental to such worship or
expenses and subsistence incidental to the
services, or of partaking in the benefit of
inquiry prayed for and any such costs
any distribution of alms thereat, or in
certified by.the Government Agent to have
connection therewith, or of otherwise
been properly incurred for the purposes of
enjoying the benefit of the trust, shall be
the inquiry and to have been duly paid shall
deemed to be a person interested within the
be deemed to be costs in the action.
meaning of this section.
(3) No action shall be entertained under (5) It shall be the duty of any
this section unless the plaintiffs shall have commissioner or commissioners appointed
previously presented a petition to the for the purpose of any such inquiry to
Government Agent of the Administrative render a report in terms of subsection (3)
District in which such place or hereof within such time as shall be specified
establishment is situate praying for the for the purpose by the Government Agent,
appointment of a . commissioner or or within such further time as he may from
commissioners to inquire into the subject- time to time authorize.
matter of the plaint, and unless the
Government Agent shall have certified that (6) The report shall be Filed in the office
an inquiry has been held in pursuance of the of the Government Agent, and the
said petition, and that the commissioner or petitioners and the trustee shall be entitled,
commissioners (or a majority of them) has on payment of the usual copying charges, to
reported— be furnished with a copy thereof.
IV/225
Cap.96] TRUSTS
(7) The court shall not be precluded from ought to be comprised in the trust,
amending the plaint so as to include therein the offerings received for the
any matter arising in the course of the purposes of the trust, the expenses
proceedings by the fact that such matter was incidental to its administration and
not included in the petition to the the manner in which it is
Government Agent, if it shall be of opinion conducted.
that in all the circumstances of the case such
(2) Any person who, without due excuse,
matter may be equitably included in the
the proof of which shall lie on him, shall
action.
make default in complying with any summons
(8) This section shall not apply to any authorized under this section, or who shall
Christian religious trust. refuse to answer to the best of his ability any
question or inquiry addressed to him under
Power to refer 103. In any action instituted under the the provisions of this section, shall be guilty of
matter for last preceding section, it shall be lawful for
an offence, and shall be liable on summary
arbitration or
the court—
inquiry. conviction to a fine not exceeding two
hundred rupees.
(a) on the application of the parties, to
order any matter in difference
105. In the exercise of its powers under Power of court
therein to be referred for decision to
section 102, without prejudice to its general as to accounts.
- one or more arbitrators ;
powers under that section, the court may—
(b) to appoint a committee for the
(a) order any trustee of any place or
purpose of making an inquiry and
establishment therein mentioned to
reporting to the court ' with
file accounts for a period not
reference to any matter involved in
exceeding three years prior to the
the action or arising in the course
date of the order ;
thereof, or for the purpose of
assisting the court in the exercise of (b) hold or direct an inquiry into the
its powers under the last preceding matters complained of or accounts so
section, or for the settlement or filed;
adjustment of any matter involved
(c) surcharge and falsify any item in the
in the action or arising in the course
accounts ;
thereof.
(d) require the trustee to make good any
Powers of 104. (1) The following persons, that is to defalcation, irregular payment, or
commissioners, say— deficiency ;
&c.
(a) any commissioner or commissioners , (e) in any case in which it shall be satisfied
appointed under section 102 (4) ; that owing to the manner in which
- . » ' the trust incidental to such place or
(b) any persons directed to make inquiries
establishment has been conducted in
under section 102 (1)(d) ;
the past it is not possible for the
trustee to furnish accounts, require as
(c) any arbitrator or committee appointed
a condition of the continuance of the
under section 103,
trustee in his office that he shall
shall, in addition to any other powers deposit for the purposes of the trust a
necessary for the effective discharge of the specified amount not exceeding the
duties imposed upon such persons,have the amount for which, in the opinion of
following powers, that is to say— the court after inquiry into all the
circumstances of the case, he may be
(i) to summon witnesses ;
reasonably held to be responsible in
(ii) to administer oaths or affirmations ; respect of the three years prior to the
date of the order ;
(iii) to require the trustee or any witness
summoned for the purpose to give (f) indemnify the trustee on such terms as it
all particulars that may be within may deem equitable in respect of any
his knowledge relating to any past neglects, misfeasances, or
immovable property which is or irregularities ;
IV/226
TRUSTS [Cap.96
(g) direct the manner in which all future (c) to provide for the settlement of the
accounts shall be kept; remuneration of the trustee :
(h) authorize in any scheme framed under Provided that no such
the said section the devotion of a remuneration shall in any case
portion of the income of the trust exceed ten per centum of the gross
property to the education of income of the trust;
children of the religious community
(d) to devote any surplus income that may
interested in the trust, and, if
be available after the reasonable
necessary, the utilization of any
satisfaction of the objects of the
immovable property comprised in
trust to the extension of such
the trust as a site, for; the said
objects, or, if the court see fit, to
purpose.
purposes of education.
Application of 106. In settling any scheme for the
religious law. management of any trust under section 102, 109. This Chapter shall not apply— Exclusion of
trusts under
or in determining any question relating to—
(a) to religious trusts regulated by the the Buddhist
Temporalities
Buddhist Temporalities Ordinance ;
(a) the constitution or existence of any Ordinance and
such trust; the Muslim
(b) to religious trusts regulated by the
Mosques and
(fr) the devolution of the trusteeship ; Muslim Mosques and Charitable Charitable
Trusts or Wakfs Act. Trusts or
Wakfs Act.
(c) the administration of the trust;
the court shall have regard— CHAPTER XI
(i) to the instrument of trust (if any) ;
MISCELLANEOUS
(ii) to the religious law and custom of the
community concerned ; 110. (1) No trust shall operate to create Rule against
an interest which is to take effect after the perpetuities.
(iii) to the local custom or practice with
lifetime of one or more persons living at the
reference to the particular trust
concerned ; date of the constitution of the trust, and the
minority of some person who shall be in
and may have regard to any arrangement de
existence at the expiration of that period
facto in force for the purpose of the
and to whom, if he attains full age, the
administration of the trust.
interest created is to belong.
De facto trusts. 107. In dealing with any property
(2) If owing to any trust an interest is
alleged to be subject to a charitable trust,
created for the benefit of a class of persons
the court shall not be debarred from
with regard to some of whom such interest
exercising any of its powers by the absence
fails by reason of the provisions of this
of evidence of the formal constitution of the
section, such interest fails as regards the
trust, if it shall be of opinion from ail the
whole class.
circumstances of the case that a trust in fact
exists, or ought to be deemed to exist. (3) Where an interest fails by reason of
the provisions of this section, any interest
Special powers 108. In settling any scheme for the
created in the same transaction and
of court. management of a charitable trust (without
intended to take effect after or upon failure
prejudice to its general powers), the court
of such prior interest also fails.
shall have the powers following :—
(4) In any case in which any interest
(a) to provide for the periodical auditing
intended to be created fails by reason of the
of the accounts of the trust property
provisions of this section, the court shall
by auditors appointed by or subject
have power to give effect to the trust in such
to the approval of the court, or
a manner as to carry out as nearly as
otherwise as the court may deem
practicable the intentions of the author of
expedient ;
the trust, subject to the limits imposed by
(b) to provide for the visitation of the this section, and may make any order
charity ; necessary for the purpose.
IV/227
