cap.96] trusts chapter 96 trusts ordinances an ordinance to define and amend the law relating to trusts. nos. 9 of 1917, 4 of 1918, 1 of 1934, acts nos. 7 of 1968. 30 of 1971. [16th april. 1918.] chapter 1 (f) the beneficial interest " or " interest " of the beneficiary is his right against preliminary the trustee as owner of the trust property ; short title. 1. this ordinance may be cited as the trusts ordinance. (g) the instrument, if any, by which the trust is declared is called the application of 2. all matters with reference to any trust, " instrument of trust " ; english taw. or with reference to any obligation in the nature of a trust arising or resulting by the (h) the expression " instrument of trust " implication or construction of law, for which includes a scheme settled under no specific provision is made in this or any chapter x of this ordinance ; other enactment, shall be determined by the (i) a breach of any duty imposed on a principles of equity for the time being in force trustee, as such, by any taw for the in the high court of justice in england. time being in force is called a interpretation. 3. in this ordinance, unless the context or " breach of trust " ; the subject-matter otherwise implies— (j) a person is said to have " notice " of a (a) " trust " is an obligation annexed to the fact either when he actually knows ownership of property, and arising that fact, or when, but for wilful abstention from inquiry or gross out of a confidence reposed in and negligence, he would have known it, accepted by the owner, or declared or when information of the fact is and accepted by him, for the benefit given to or obtained by any person of another person, or of another whom the court may determine to person and the owner, of such a have been his agent for the purpose character that, while the ownership is of receiving or obtaining such nominally vested in the owner, the information ; right to the beneficial enjoyment of the property is vested or to be vested (k) every person is u competent to in such other person, or in such other contract " who is of the age of person concurrently with the owner ; majority, or has otherwise acquired the status of majority according to (b) the person who reposes or declares the the law to which he is subject, and confidence is called the " author of who is of sound mind, and is not the trust "; disqualified by law from contracting ; (c) the person who accepts the confidence is (l) a " married woman " is competent to called the " trustee " ; contract : (d) the person for whose benefit the provided that in any case in confidence is accepted is called the which the consent, concurrence, " beneficiary "; acquiescence, or ratification of a beneficiary is referred to, the (e) the subject-matter of the trust is called power of consent, concurrence, " trust property " or " trust acquiescence, or ratification of a money "; . married woman who is a beneficiary iv/206 trusts [cap. 96 shall be subject to the same {h} a, while in insolvent circumstances, transfers conditions and limitations as her property to b in trust for a during his life, and power to contract with reference to after his death to b. a is declared an insolvent. the trust for a is invalid as against his the matter in question ; creditors. (m) " court " means the district court 5. (1) subject to the provisions of section tnistof having jurisdiction in the matter in 107, no trust in relation to immovable immovable question, or a district court upon properly. property is valid unless declared by the last which the court of appeal, on the will of the author of the trust or of the trustee, application of any party interested, or by a non-testamentary instrument in may confer jurisdiction for the writing signed by the author of the trust or purposes either of the trust generally the trustee, and notarially executed. or of the matter in question ; (2) no trust in relation to movable property trust of (n) " notarially executed " means executed is valid unless declared by the last will of the movable in the manner prescribed by section 2 author of the trust or of the trustee, or by a property of the prevention of frauds non-testamentary instrument in writing signed ordinance, and any reference to by the author of the trust or the trustee, or m notarial execution " shall be unless the ownership of the property is deemed to include a reference to transferred to the trustee by delivery. execution in accordance with the deeds and documents (execution (3) these rules do not apply where they before public officers) ordinance. would operate so as to effectuate a fraud. chapter ii 6. subject to the provisions of sections 5 creation of and 107, a trust is created when the author of trust- of the creation of trusts the trust indicates with reasonable certainty lawful 4. (1) a trust may be created for any by any words or acts— purpose. lawful purpose. the purpose of a trust is (a) an intention on his part to create lawful, unless— thereby a trust, (a) it is forbidden by law, or . (b) the purpose of the trust, (b) it is of such a nature that, if permitted. it would defeat the provisions of any (c) the beneficiary, law, or (d) the trust property, and (c) it is fraudulent, or (unless the trust is declared by will or the (d) it involves or implies injury to the author of the trust is himself to be the trustee) person or property of another, or transfers the trust property to the trustee. (e) the court regards it as immoral: or illustrations opposed to public policy. (a) a bequeaths certain property to b, *' having the (2) every trust of which the purpose is fullest confidence that he will dispose of it for unlawful is void. and where a trust is created the benefit of " c. this creates a trust so far as for two purposes, of which one is lawful and the other unlawful, and the two purposes regards a and c. cannot be separated, the whole trust is void. (b) a bequeaths certain property to b," hoping he will explanation.—in this section the expression " law " continue it in the family ". this does not create includes where the trust property is immovable f a trust, as the beneficiary is not indicated with and situate in a foreign country, the law of reasonable certainty. such country. illustrations (c) a bequeaths certain property to b, requesting him to distribute it amongst such members of c's (a) a bequeaths property to b in trust to employ it in family as b should think most deserving. this carrying on a smuggling business, and out of does not create a trust, for the beneficiaries are the profits thereof to support a's children. the trust is void. not indicated with reasonable certainty. iv/207 cap.96] trusts (d) a bequeaths certain property to b, desiring him illustrations to divide the bulk of it among c's children. this does not create a trust, for the trust (a) a bequeaths certain property to b and c. his property is not indicated with sufficient executors, as trustees for d. b and c prove . certainty. a's will. this is in itself an acceptance of the trust, and b and c hold the properly in trust (e) a bequeaths a shop and stock in trade to b, on ford. condition that he pays a's debts and a legacy to c. this is a condition, not a trust, for a's (b) a transfers certain property to b in trust to sell il creditors and c. and to pay out of the proceeds a's debts- b accepts the trust and sells the property. so who may 7. a trust may be created- far as regards b, a trust of the proceeds is create trusts. created for a's creditors. (a) by every person competent to contract ; and (c) a bequeaths a lakh of rupees to b upon certain trusts and appoints him his executor. b (b) with the permission of the court by severs the lakh from the general assets and or on behalf of a minor ; appropriates it 10 the specific purpose. this is an acceptance of the trust. but subject in each case to the law for the time being in force as to the circumstances chapter iii and extent in and to which the author of the trust may dispose of the trust property. of the duties and liabilities of trustees subject of 8. the subject-matter of a trust must be trust. property transferable to the beneficiary. it 11. (i) the trustee is bound to fulfil the trustee to must not be a merely beneficial interest purpose of the trust, and to obey the execute trust. under a subsisting trust. directions of the author of the trust given at the time of its creation, except as modified who may be 9. (1) every person capable of holding by the consent of all the beneficiaries being beneficiary. property may be a beneficiary. competent to contract, disclaimer by (2) a proposed beneficiary may renounce (2) where the beneficiary is incompetent beneficiary. his interest under the trust by disclaimer to contract, his consent may, for the addressed to the trustee, or by setting up, purposes of this section, be given by the with notice of the trust, a claim inconsistent court. therewith. explanation.—unless a contrary intention be who may be 10. (1) every person capable of holding expressed, the purpose of a trust for the trustee. property may be a trustee ; but, where the payment of debts shall be deemed to be— trust involves the exercise of discretion, he (a) to pay only the debts of the author of the trust cannot execute it unless he is competent to existing and recoverable at the date of the contract. instrument of trust, or, when such instrument is a will, at the date of his death, and no one bound (2) no one is bound to accept a trust. (b) in the case of debts not bearing interest, to make to accept trust. such payment without interest. acceptance of (3) a trust is accepted by any words or illustrations trust. acts of the trustee indicating with reasonable (a) a, a trustee, is simply authorized to sell certain certainty such acceptance. land by public auction- he cannot sell the land by private contract. disclaimer of (4) instead of accepting a trust, the trust. intended trustee may, within a reasonable (b).a, a trustee of certain land for x, y, and z, is authorized to sell the land to b for a specified period, disclaim it, and such disclaimer shall sum. x, y, and z, being competent to ' prevent the trust property from vesting in contract, consent that a may sell the land to him. c for a less sum. a may sell the land accordingly. (5) a disclaimer by one of two or more (c) a, a trustee for b and her children, is directed by co-trustees vests the trust property in the the author of the trust to lend, on b's request, other or others, and makes him or them sole trust property to b's husband c, on the security of his bond. c becomes insolvent, and trustee or trustees from the date of the b requests a to make the loan- a may refuse creation of the trust. to make il. iv/208