Cap.96] TRUSTS
CHAPTER 96
TRUSTS
Ordinances AN ORDINANCE TO DEFINE AND AMEND THE LAW RELATING TO TRUSTS.
Nos. 9 of 1917,
4 of 1918,
1 of 1934,
Acts
Nos. 7 of 1968.
30 of 1971.
[16th April. 1918.]
CHAPTER 1 (f) the beneficial interest " or " interest "
of the beneficiary is his right against
PRELIMINARY the trustee as owner of the trust
property ;
Short title. 1. This Ordinance may be cited as the
Trusts Ordinance. (g) the instrument, if any, by which the
trust is declared is called the
Application of 2. All matters with reference to any trust,
" instrument of trust " ;
English taw. or with reference to any obligation in the
nature of a trust arising or resulting by the (h) the expression " instrument of trust "
implication or construction of law, for which includes a scheme settled under
no specific provision is made in this or any Chapter X of this Ordinance ;
other enactment, shall be determined by the
(i) a breach of any duty imposed on a
principles of equity for the time being in force
trustee, as such, by any taw for the
in the High Court of Justice in England.
time being in force is called a
Interpretation. 3. In this Ordinance, unless the context or " breach of trust " ;
the subject-matter otherwise implies—
(j) a person is said to have " notice " of a
(a) " trust " is an obligation annexed to the fact either when he actually knows
ownership of property, and arising that fact, or when, but for wilful
abstention from inquiry or gross
out of a confidence reposed in and
negligence, he would have known it,
accepted by the owner, or declared
or when information of the fact is
and accepted by him, for the benefit
given to or obtained by any person
of another person, or of another
whom the court may determine to
person and the owner, of such a
have been his agent for the purpose
character that, while the ownership is
of receiving or obtaining such
nominally vested in the owner, the
information ;
right to the beneficial enjoyment of
the property is vested or to be vested (k) every person is u competent to
in such other person, or in such other contract " who is of the age of
person concurrently with the owner ; majority, or has otherwise acquired
the status of majority according to
(b) the person who reposes or declares the the law to which he is subject, and
confidence is called the " author of who is of sound mind, and is not
the trust "; disqualified by law from contracting ;
(c) the person who accepts the confidence is (l) a " married woman " is competent to
called the " trustee " ; contract :
(d) the person for whose benefit the Provided that in any case in
confidence is accepted is called the which the consent, concurrence,
" beneficiary "; acquiescence, or ratification of a
beneficiary is referred to, the
(e) the subject-matter of the trust is called power of consent, concurrence,
" trust property " or " trust acquiescence, or ratification of a
money "; . married woman who is a beneficiary
IV/206
TRUSTS [Cap. 96
shall be subject to the same {h} A, while in insolvent circumstances, transfers
conditions and limitations as her property to B in trust for A during his life, and
power to contract with reference to after his death to B. A is declared an insolvent.
The trust for A is invalid as against his
the matter in question ;
creditors.
(m) " court " means the District Court
5. (1) Subject to the provisions of section Tnistof
having jurisdiction in the matter in
107, no trust in relation to immovable immovable
question, or a District Court upon properly.
property is valid unless declared by the last
which the Court of Appeal, on the
will of the author of the trust or of the trustee,
application of any party interested,
or by a non-testamentary instrument in
may confer jurisdiction for the
writing signed by the author of the trust or
purposes either of the trust generally
the trustee, and notarially executed.
or of the matter in question ;
(2) No trust in relation to movable property Trust of
(n) " notarially executed " means executed
is valid unless declared by the last will of the movable
in the manner prescribed by section 2
author of the trust or of the trustee, or by a property
of the Prevention of Frauds
non-testamentary instrument in writing signed
Ordinance, and any reference to
by the author of the trust or the trustee, or
M notarial execution " shall be
unless the ownership of the property is
deemed to include a reference to
transferred to the trustee by delivery.
execution in accordance with the
Deeds and Documents (Execution
(3) These rules do not apply where they
before Public Officers) Ordinance.
would operate so as to effectuate a fraud.
CHAPTER II 6. Subject to the provisions of sections 5 Creation of
and 107, a trust is created when the author of trust-
OF THE CREATION OF TRUSTS
the trust indicates with reasonable certainty
lawful 4. (1) A trust may be created for any by any words or acts—
purpose. lawful purpose. The purpose of a trust is
(a) an intention on his part to create
lawful, unless—
thereby a trust,
(a) it is forbidden by law, or .
(b) the purpose of the trust,
(b) it is of such a nature that, if permitted.
it would defeat the provisions of any (c) the beneficiary,
law, or
(d) the trust property, and
(c) it is fraudulent, or
(unless the trust is declared by will or the
(d) it involves or implies injury to the author of the trust is himself to be the trustee)
person or property of another, or transfers the trust property to the trustee.
(e) the court regards it as immoral: or
Illustrations
opposed to public policy.
(a) A bequeaths certain property to B, *' having the
(2) Every trust of which the purpose is
fullest confidence that he will dispose of it for
unlawful is void. And where a trust is created
the benefit of " C. This creates a trust so far as
for two purposes, of which one is lawful and
the other unlawful, and the two purposes regards A and C.
cannot be separated, the whole trust is void.
(b) A bequeaths certain property to B," hoping he will
Explanation.—In this section the expression " law " continue it in the family ". This does not create
includes where the trust property is immovable f a trust, as the beneficiary is not indicated with
and situate in a foreign country, the law of
reasonable certainty.
such country.
Illustrations (c) A bequeaths certain property to B, requesting him
to distribute it amongst such members of C's
(a) A bequeaths property to B in trust to employ it in
family as B should think most deserving. This
carrying on a smuggling business, and out of
does not create a trust, for the beneficiaries are
the profits thereof to support A's children. The
trust is void. not indicated with reasonable certainty.
IV/207
Cap.96] TRUSTS
(d) A bequeaths certain property to B, desiring him Illustrations
to divide the bulk of it among C's children.
This does not create a trust, for the trust (a) A bequeaths certain property to B and C. his
property is not indicated with sufficient executors, as trustees for D. B and C prove
. certainty. A's will. This is in itself an acceptance of the
trust, and B and C hold the properly in trust
(e) A bequeaths a shop and stock in trade to B, on forD.
condition that he pays A's debts and a legacy
to C. This is a condition, not a trust, for A's (b) A transfers certain property to B in trust to sell il
creditors and C. and to pay out of the proceeds A's debts- B
accepts the trust and sells the property. So
Who may 7. A trust may be created-
far as regards B, a trust of the proceeds is
create trusts.
created for A's creditors.
(a) by every person competent to
contract ; and (c) A bequeaths a lakh of rupees to B upon certain
trusts and appoints him his executor. B
(b) with the permission of the court by severs the lakh from the general assets and
or on behalf of a minor ; appropriates it 10 the specific purpose. This
is an acceptance of the trust.
but subject in each case to the law for the
time being in force as to the circumstances CHAPTER III
and extent in and to which the author of the
trust may dispose of the trust property. OF THE DUTIES AND LIABILITIES OF
TRUSTEES
Subject of 8. The subject-matter of a trust must be
trust. property transferable to the beneficiary. It 11. (I) The trustee is bound to fulfil the Trustee to
must not be a merely beneficial interest purpose of the trust, and to obey the execute trust.
under a subsisting trust. directions of the author of the trust given at
the time of its creation, except as modified
Who may be 9. (1) Every person capable of holding by the consent of all the beneficiaries being
beneficiary. property may be a beneficiary. competent to contract,
Disclaimer by (2) A proposed beneficiary may renounce (2) Where the beneficiary is incompetent
beneficiary. his interest under the trust by disclaimer to contract, his consent may, for the
addressed to the trustee, or by setting up, purposes of this section, be given by the
with notice of the trust, a claim inconsistent
court.
therewith.
Explanation.—Unless a contrary intention be
Who may be 10. (1) Every person capable of holding expressed, the purpose of a trust for the
trustee. property may be a trustee ; but, where the payment of debts shall be deemed to be—
trust involves the exercise of discretion, he
(a) to pay only the debts of the author of the trust
cannot execute it unless he is competent to existing and recoverable at the date of the
contract. instrument of trust, or, when such instrument
is a will, at the date of his death, and
No one bound (2) No one is bound to accept a trust.
(b) in the case of debts not bearing interest, to make
to accept trust.
such payment without interest.
Acceptance of (3) A trust is accepted by any words or
Illustrations
trust. acts of the trustee indicating with reasonable
(a) A, a trustee, is simply authorized to sell certain
certainty such acceptance.
land by public auction- He cannot sell the
land by private contract.
Disclaimer of (4) Instead of accepting a trust, the
trust. intended trustee may, within a reasonable (b).A, a trustee of certain land for X, Y, and Z, is
authorized to sell the land to B for a specified
period, disclaim it, and such disclaimer shall
sum. X, Y, and Z, being competent to '
prevent the trust property from vesting in contract, consent that A may sell the land to
him. C for a less sum. A may sell the land
accordingly.
(5) A disclaimer by one of two or more (c) A, a trustee for B and her children, is directed by
co-trustees vests the trust property in the the author of the trust to lend, on B's request,
other or others, and makes him or them sole trust property to B's husband C, on the
security of his bond. C becomes insolvent, and
trustee or trustees from the date of the
B requests A to make the loan- A may refuse
creation of the trust.
to make il.
IV/208
