EDABS 301 - Law in Business (2019/2020)
Lecturer: Shanila H. Gunawardena [ LL.B. (Hons.) (Colombo), Attorney-at-Law, CTA (CASL)]
the total purchase money he had paid to Divall. The Court held that Rowland was entitled to
recover in full, notwithstanding that he had used the car for four months.
- Implied conditions relating to sale by description - section 14:
• Where there is a sale of goods by description, the goods sold must correspond with the
description. Where there is a sale of goods by showing a sample as well as by description, the
goods sold must correspond both with the sample and the description. Goods are sold by
description when they are described in the contract and the buyer contracts in reliance of that
description.
Moore & Co. vs. Landaner & Co (1912) 2 KB 519 – Moore sold Landaner 3,100 cases of Australian
canned fruits and the cases were to contain 30 tins each. Moore delivered the total quantity, but
about half the cases contained 24 tins and the remainder 30 tins. Landaner rejected the goods.
There was no difference in market value between goods packed as 24 tins and goods packed as
30 tins to the case. The Court upheld the buyer’s right to reject the whole consignment because
the goods delivered did not correspond with the description of those ordered.
Arcos Ltd. vs. Ronaasen & Son [1933] – This involved a contract to buy wooden sticks of a
specified thickness of ½ inch. About 80% of those supplied were more than ½ inch. It was held
that the buyer could reject the goods as the goods supplied did not correspond with the goods
specified or described in the contract.
- Implied conditions as to quality or fitness – section 15:
• General rule relating to quality or fitness of a good is that every buyer must satisfy himself as to
the quality or fitness of the goods he is buying. If he decides to buy a good he must inspect the
goods and be satisfied that he is buying goods of good quality. This is known as the “caveat
emptor rule” which states that “the buyer must be aware.” Accordingly, the buyer must take care
and see that he is buying the good he wants.
• Exceptions to the above general rule are found as implied conditions as follows:
(a) Section 15(1) – When the buyer, expressly or by implication, makes known to the seller the
particular purpose for which the goods are required, so as to show that the buyer relies on
the seller’s skill and judgment, and the goods are of a description which it is in the course of
the seller’s business to supply, then the goods sold must be reasonably fit for that
purpose. The purpose for which the goods are required need not, however, be expressly
made known to the seller if it can be readily gathered from a description of the goods.
Frost vs. Aylesbury Dairy [1905] – a milk dealer supplied milk containing germs of typhoid
fever which was consumed by the buyer’s family. Wife was infected with typhoid and died. It
was held that the purpose for which the milk was bought was sufficiently made known to the
milk dealer by its description. Milk was not reasonably fit for human consumption.
Grant vs. Australian Mills [1936] – woolen underwear purchased from a retailer contained an
excess of Sulphite. The user of the underwear contracted a skin ailment after he wore them.
It was held that he was entitled to damages because there was a breach of an implied
condition that the garments were reasonably fit for use.
(b) Section 15(2) – when goods are bought by description from a seller who deals in goods of
that description (whether he be a manufacturer or not), the goods must be of a
merchantable quality. However, if the buyer has examined the goods, there will be no
implied condition as regards defects which such examination ought to have revealed.
The goods are not of merchantable quality where:
3
EDABS 301 - Law in Business (2019/2020)
Lecturer: Shanila H. Gunawardena [ LL.B. (Hons.) (Colombo), Attorney-at-Law, CTA (CASL)]
(i) the goods have defects unfitting them for their ordinary use; or
(ii) the condition of the goods is such that no one, with knowledge of their true condition,
would have bought them.
Wren vs. Holt [1703] – A customer ordered beer from a restaurant. Beer given to him had
been contaminated with Arsenic and the customer fell ill. It was held that the beer supplied
was “not fit for purpose” and “not merchantable.”
- Sale of goods by sample and related implied conditions - section 16:
• A contract of sale is a contract for sale by sample where there is a term in the contract, express or
implied, to that effect.
• Implied conditions in such a situation:
(a) The bulk sold must correspond in quality with the sample shown to the buyer.
(b) The seller must give a reasonable opportunity for the buyer to compare the bulk with the
sample.
(c) The goods sold must be of merchantable quality. Goods must be free from defect which
would not be apparent on reasonable examination of the sample.
• Drummond vs. Van Ingen [1887] – A sample of cloth was approved by the buyer. The seller knew
that the buyer was intending to re-sell the cloth to several tailors as material for tailoring work.
The bulk was duly delivered but were unmerchantable for tailoring purposes. The bulk was of the
same quality as the sample. However, it was held that the defects in this situation could not have
been discovered by inspection of the sample and the buyer was not liable to pay for the bulk.
(10) IMPLIED WARRANTIES
Implied warranties as to the title of the goods:
- Section 13(b) - The buyer must have and enjoy quiet possession of the goods. The seller is liable in
damages if the buyer is disturbed in the enjoyment of the goods in consequence of the seller’s
defective title to sell.
- Section 13(c) - The goods are free from any charge or encumbrance in favour of any third party,
not declared or known to the buyer before or at the time when the contract is made.
(11) WHEN DOES THE PROPERTY TRANSFER FROM THE SELLER TO THE BUYER
- A contract for the sale of unascertained goods – no property transfers to the buyer until the goods
are ascertained. (Section 17)
- A contract for the sale of specific or ascertained goods – property transfers to the buyer at such
time as the parties to the contract intend it to be transferred. [Section 18(1)]
(12) WHEN DO PARTIES “INTEND” THE GOODS TO PASS?
- Intention must be ascertained by the terms of the contract, the conduct of the parties and the
circumstances of the case. [Section 18(2)]
- Rules for ascertaining intention (Section 19):
(I) Where there is an unconditional contract for the sale of specific goods, in a deliverable
state, the property in the goods passes to the buyer when the contract is made, and it is
immaterial whether the time of payment or the time of delivery, or both, be postponed.
• “deliverable state” is the state in which the buyer would be bound to take delivery of the
goods under the contract.
• “specific goods” means goods identified and agreed upon at the time a contract of sale is
made
• Philip Head and Sons vs. Showfront [1970] – This involved a contract by sellers to lay
carpet for the buyers. The carpet was stolen before it was laid. It was held that the carpet was
4
EDABS 301 - Law in Business (2019/2020)
Lecturer: Shanila H. Gunawardena [ LL.B. (Hons.) (Colombo), Attorney-at-Law, CTA (CASL)]
not unconditionally appropriated to the contract in a deliverable state and therefore, the
buyers were not liable for the price.
(II) Where there is a contract for the sale of specific goods, and the seller is bound to do
something to the goods for the purpose of putting them into a deliverable state, the
property does not pass until such thing be done and the buyer has notice thereof.
(III) Where there is a contract for the sale of specific goods in a deliverable state, but the seller
is bound to weigh, measure, test, or do some other act or thing with reference to the
goods for the purpose of ascertaining the price, the property does not pass until such act
or thing be done and the buyer has notice of it.
(IV) When goods are delivered to the buyer on approval, or other similar terms, the property
therein passes to the buyer:
(a) when he signifies his approval or acceptance to the seller, or does any other act adopting
the transaction;
(b) if he does not signify his approval or acceptance to the seller, but retains the goods
without giving notice of rejection, then, if a time has been fixed for the return of the
goods, on the expiration of such time, and, if no time has been fixed, on the expiration
of a reasonable time.
(V) 1. Where there is a contract for the sale of unascertained or future goods by description,
and goods of that description and in a deliverable state are unconditionally
appropriated to the contract, either by the seller with the consent of the buyer or by the
buyer with the consent of the seller, the property in the goods thereupon passes to the
buyer. Such consent may be express or implied, and may be given either before or after the
appropriation is made.
(Unconditional appropriation of goods to a contract means that the goods have been set
apart from the bulk of unascertained goods and they would be used for that particular
contract without modification.)
2. Where in pursuance of the contract, the seller delivers the goods to the buyer or to a carrier
for the purpose of transmission to the buyer, and does not reserve the right of disposal,
he is deemed to have unconditionally appropriated the goods to the contract.
• Pignator vs. Gilroy [1919] – This involved a sale of unascertained bags of rice. The buyer
paid the price and asked for delivery. Two different places of delivery have been stated by
the seller for collection. The buyer collected from one place and not from the other place.
The goods that were not collected was stolen. It was held that the property in the goods
passed and the buyer is at risk.
(13) WHAT IS RESERVATION OF “RIGHT TO DISPOSAL”? (Section 20)
- Where there is a contract for the sale of specific goods, or where goods are subsequently
appropriated to the contract, the seller may, by the terms of the contract or appropriation,
reserve the right of disposal of the goods until certain conditions are fulfilled. In such a case,
notwithstanding the delivery of the goods to the buyer, or to a carrier for the purpose of
transmission to the buyer, the property in the goods does not pass to the buyer until the conditions
imposed by the seller are fulfilled.
(14) TRANSFER OF TITLE / PASSING OF RISK (Section 21)
- Unless otherwise agreed, goods remain at the seller’s risk until the property has passed to the buyer,
after which, they are at the buyer’s risk, whether delivery has been made or not.
- However, where delivery has been delayed through the fault of either buyer or seller, the goods are
at the risk of the party in fault as regards any loss which might not have occurred but for such fault.
5
