EDABS 301 - Law in Business (2019/2020)
Lecturer: Shanila H. Gunawardena [ LL.B. (Hons.) (Colombo), Attorney-at-Law, CTA (CASL)]
not unconditionally appropriated to the contract in a deliverable state and therefore, the
buyers were not liable for the price.
(II) Where there is a contract for the sale of specific goods, and the seller is bound to do
something to the goods for the purpose of putting them into a deliverable state, the
property does not pass until such thing be done and the buyer has notice thereof.
(III) Where there is a contract for the sale of specific goods in a deliverable state, but the seller
is bound to weigh, measure, test, or do some other act or thing with reference to the
goods for the purpose of ascertaining the price, the property does not pass until such act
or thing be done and the buyer has notice of it.
(IV) When goods are delivered to the buyer on approval, or other similar terms, the property
therein passes to the buyer:
(a) when he signifies his approval or acceptance to the seller, or does any other act adopting
the transaction;
(b) if he does not signify his approval or acceptance to the seller, but retains the goods
without giving notice of rejection, then, if a time has been fixed for the return of the
goods, on the expiration of such time, and, if no time has been fixed, on the expiration
of a reasonable time.
(V) 1. Where there is a contract for the sale of unascertained or future goods by description,
and goods of that description and in a deliverable state are unconditionally
appropriated to the contract, either by the seller with the consent of the buyer or by the
buyer with the consent of the seller, the property in the goods thereupon passes to the
buyer. Such consent may be express or implied, and may be given either before or after the
appropriation is made.
(Unconditional appropriation of goods to a contract means that the goods have been set
apart from the bulk of unascertained goods and they would be used for that particular
contract without modification.)
2. Where in pursuance of the contract, the seller delivers the goods to the buyer or to a carrier
for the purpose of transmission to the buyer, and does not reserve the right of disposal,
he is deemed to have unconditionally appropriated the goods to the contract.
• Pignator vs. Gilroy [1919] – This involved a sale of unascertained bags of rice. The buyer
paid the price and asked for delivery. Two different places of delivery have been stated by
the seller for collection. The buyer collected from one place and not from the other place.
The goods that were not collected was stolen. It was held that the property in the goods
passed and the buyer is at risk.
(13) WHAT IS RESERVATION OF “RIGHT TO DISPOSAL”? (Section 20)
- Where there is a contract for the sale of specific goods, or where goods are subsequently
appropriated to the contract, the seller may, by the terms of the contract or appropriation,
reserve the right of disposal of the goods until certain conditions are fulfilled. In such a case,
notwithstanding the delivery of the goods to the buyer, or to a carrier for the purpose of
transmission to the buyer, the property in the goods does not pass to the buyer until the conditions
imposed by the seller are fulfilled.
(14) TRANSFER OF TITLE / PASSING OF RISK (Section 21)
- Unless otherwise agreed, goods remain at the seller’s risk until the property has passed to the buyer,
after which, they are at the buyer’s risk, whether delivery has been made or not.
- However, where delivery has been delayed through the fault of either buyer or seller, the goods are
at the risk of the party in fault as regards any loss which might not have occurred but for such fault.
5
EDABS 301 - Law in Business (2019/2020)
Lecturer: Shanila H. Gunawardena [ LL.B. (Hons.) (Colombo), Attorney-at-Law, CTA (CASL)]
(15) SALE BY PERSON NOT THE OWNER (Section 22)
- GENERAL RULE:
• Where goods are sold by a person who is not the owner, and who does not sell them under the
authority or with the consent of the owner, the buyer acquires no better title to the goods than
the seller had, unless the owner of the goods is by his conduct precluded from denying the
seller's authority to sell.
• An innocent purchaser will be entitled to recover the monies paid.
• Greenwood vs. Bennet [1973] – original owner of a Jaguar car entrusted it to another for repairs. He
used it and damaged it. Consequently, he sold to a third party who in turn sold it to a finance
company. It was held that the car belonged to the original owner.
- EXCEPTIONS:
(1) If the true owner stands by and allows an innocent buyer to pay over money to a third party, the
true owner will be estopped from denying the third party’s right to sell
(2) Sale by a Mercantile Agent - A Mercantile Agent is a person who, in the customary course of his
business as such Agent, has authority either to sell or to consign goods for the purpose of sale.
Folkes vs. King [1923] – The owner of a car entrusted the car to a mercantile agent and instructed
the mercantile agent to sell the car only above a certain amount. The mercantile agent sold the
car at a lesser amount and misappropriated the proceeds. However, the Court held that the
purchaser obtained good title to the car from the mercantile agent because he was possessing
the car with the owner’s consent for the purpose of sale.
(16) PERFORMANCE OF THE CONTRACT FOR SALE OF GOODS
- Section 27 - It is the duty of the seller to deliver the goods and for the buyer to accept the goods
and pay for them.
- Section 28 - Unless otherwise agreed, delivery of the goods and payment of the price are
concurrent conditions; that is to say, the seller must be ready and willing to give possession of the
goods to the buyer in exchange for the price, and the buyer must be ready and willing to pay the
price in exchange for possession of the goods.
(17) DELIVERY OF GOODS
- Section 29 - In the absence of specific terms and conditions on the delivery of goods, the following
rules will apply:
1. The place of delivery is the seller’s place of business, if he has one, if not, his residence.
However, if the contract is for the sale of specific goods, which to the knowledge of the parties
when the contract is made are in some other place, then that place is the place of delivery.
2. Where the seller is bound to send the goods to the buyer, but no time for sending them is
fixed, seller must send within a reasonable time and in a reasonable hour.
3. If the goods are in possession of a third party, there is no delivery until such third party
acknowledges to the buyer that he holds the goods on his behalf.
4. The expenses of putting the goods into a deliverable state must be borne by the seller.
5. Section 32 - Where the seller is authorised or required to send the goods by delivery to a
carrier, whether named by the buyer or not, the delivery to the carrier is prima facie proof
of delivery to the buyer. [Where the carrier is by sea, seller must give the buyer reasonable
notice to insure the goods. Otherwise it will be at the seller’s risk.]
(18) DELIVERY OF WRONG QUANTITY (Section 30)
- If the seller sends the buyer the wrong quantity of goods that he ordered, the buyer may:
• reject the whole;
• accept the whole (must pay at the contract rate);
6
