Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 11
17. For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared Avoidance of
that— doubt.
(a) if an offer and acceptance of an offer has been in
whole or in part expressed by means of an electronic
record, an electronic signature attached to, or
logically associated with, such electronic record
shall not be denied legal effect soley on the ground
that it is with an electronic signature ;
(b) if an electronic communication is used in the
formation of a contract, the contract shall not be
denied validity or enforceability solely on the
ground that an electronic record had been used for
such purpose ;
(c) the accepted principles of common law relating to
contracts that the offeror may prescribe the method
of communicating acceptance, shall not be affected
by anything contained in this Chapter ;
(d) a contract formed by the interaction of an automated
message system and a natural person or by the
interaction of automated message systems, shall not
be denied validity or enforceability solely on the
ground that there was no review or intervention by
a natural person of the final contrct or of each of the
actions carried out by the automated message
system.
CHAPTER IV
CERTIFICATION AUTHORITY AND CERTIFICATION OF SERVICE PROVIDERS
18. (1) There shall be a Certification Authority Designation of a
designated by the Minister for the purposes of this Act in Certification
Authority.
consultation with the Minister in charge of the subject of
Information and Communication Technology.
12 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006
(2) In designating a Certification Authority the Minister
may by Order published in the Gazette, designate any
Government Department, Public Corporation, Statutory Body,
Institution, or authority or any branch or unit thereof which
shall be charged with the implementation of the provisions
of this Chapter ; the Minister shall in making the Order take
into consideration the capacity of the Government
Department, Public Corporation, Statutory Body, institution
or authority to be designated in relation to its overall ability
to discharge the obligations under this Act in ensuring the
proper functioning of certification services by accredited
Certification Service Providers.
Powers of 19. The Certification Authority shall have the power
Certification to–
Authority.
(a) identify the criteria which will form the basis for
accreditation of Certification Service Providers and
the qualifications required by them ;
(b) hear appeals and specify the procedure to be followed
in the granting of accreditation for the purposes of
this Act ;
(c) specify the procedure for the hearing of appeals in
the event of a refusal to grant or renew accreditation
under section 20, as the case may be ;
(d) issue licences or any other form of authorisation to
Certification Service Providers to provide prescribed
services ;
(e) require Certification Service Providers to maintain
such records and registers as may be prescribed ;
(f) from time to time call for information as may be
necessary from Certification Service Providers and
issue directions to such Certification Service
Providers.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 13
20. (1) No person shall function as an accredited Accreditation of
Certification Service Provider unless be holds a valid Certification
certificate of accreditation issued under the Sri Lanka Service
Accreditation Board for Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 Providers.
of 2005.
(2) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as impeding or
in any way restricting the rights of any certification service
provider to engage in the business of providing certification
services without being accredited.
(3) A certificate of accreditation to a Certification Service
Provider may be granted in accordance with provisions of
the Sri Lanka Accreditation Board for Conformity Assessment
Act, No. 32 of 2005, in keeping with the criteria for
accreditation specified by the Certification Authority under
paragraph (a) of section 19.
CHAPTER V
RULES GOVERNING EVIDENCE
21. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Applicability of
Evidence Ordinance or any other written law, the following the Rules of
provisions of this section shall be applicable for the purposes Evidence.
of this Act.
(2) Any information contained in a data message, or any
electronic document, electronic record or other
communication—
(a) touching any fact in issue or relevant fact ; and
(b) compiled, received or obtained during the course of
any business, trade or profession or other regularly
conducted activity,
shall be admissible in any proceedings :
Provided that, direct oral evidence of such fact in issue or
relevant fact if available, shall be admissible ; and there is no
reason to believe that the information contained in a data
message, or any electronic document, electronic record or
other communication is unreliable or inaccurate :
14 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006
Provided further that, for the purposes of paragraphs (a)
and (b), if any information is contained in a data message,
electronic document, electronic record or other
communication made by a person—
(i) who is dead or who by reason of his bodily or mental
condition is unfit to attend as a witness ; or
(ii) who is outside Sri Lanka and where reasonable steps
have been taken to find such person and he cannot
be found ; or
(iii) who does not wish to give oral evidence through
fear ; or
(iv) who is prevented from so giving evidence,
evidence relating to such information shall, if available, be
admissible.
(3) The Courts shall, unless the contrary is proved, presume
the truth of information contained in a data message, or in any
electronic doucment or electronic record or other
communication and in the case of any data message, electronic
document, electronic record or other communication made by
a person, that the data message, electronic document or
electronic record or other communication was made by the
person who is purported to have made it and similarly, shall
presume the genuineness of any electronic signature or
distinctive identification mark therein.
Provisions of the 22. Nothing contained in the Evidence (Special
Evidence Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 1995 shall apply to and in relation
(Special
to any data message, electronic document, electronic
Provisions) Act,
No. 14 of 1995 record or other document to which the provisions of this Act
not to apply. applies.
