6 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006
Publication in 9. Where any Act or enactment provides that any
electronic forms Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification, or
of Gazette &c.,
other matter shall be published in the Gazette, then such
deemed to be
publication. requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such
rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter is
published in an electronic form of the Gazette.
No right to insist 10. Nothing contained in the preceding sections shall
on records being confer a right upon any person to insist that any Ministry,
in electronic
Government Department, Institution, Statutory Body or Public
form.
Corporation or other similar body should accept or issue, any
document in the form of electronic records or effect any
monetary transaction in electronic form.
CHAPTER III
ELECTRONIC CONTRACTS
Electronic 11. In the context of contract formation, unless otherwise
Contracts. agreed by the parties, an offer and the acceptance of an offer
may be expressed in electronic form. A contract shall not be
denied legal validity or enforceability on the sole ground
that it is in electronic form.
Attribution of 12. (1) Unless otherwise agreed as between an originator
electronic and the addressee, a data message, electronic document,
records.
electronic record or other communication shall be deemed to
be that of the originator, if it was sent-
(a) by the originator himself ;
(b) by a person who had the authority to act for and on
behalf of the originator in respect of that data
message, electronic document, electronic record or
other communication ; or
(c) by an automated information system programmed
by, or on behalf of the originator.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 7
(2) Unless otherwise agreed as between the originator and
the addressee, the addressee is to regard a data message,
electronic document, electronic record or other
communication as being that of the originator, and is entitled
to act on that assumption, if :—
(a) the addressee has no reason to doubt the authenticity
of the data message, electronic document, electronic
record or other communication ; or
(b) there do not exist any circumstances where the
addressee knows, or ought to have known by
exercising reasonable care, that the data message,
electronic document, electronic record or other
communication was authentic.
13. (1) Where the originator has not agreed with the Acknowledgement
addressee that acknowledgement of receipt be given in a of receipt.
particular form or by a particular method, such an
acknowledgement may be given by-
(a) any data message, electronic document, electronic
record or other communication by the addressee,
automated or otherwise ; or
(b) any conduct of the addressee, sufficient to indicate
to the originator that the data message, electronic
document, electronic record or other communication
has been received.
(2) Where the originator has stipulated that data message,
electronic document, electronic record or other
communication shall be binding only on receipt of an
acknowledgement of receipt of such data message, electronic
document, electronic record or other communication by him,
then, unless acknowledgement has been so received, the data
message, electronic document, electronic record or other
communication shall be deemed to have never been sent by
the originator.
8 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006
(3) Where the originator has not stipulated that the data
message, electronic document, electronic record or other
communication shall be binding only on receipt of such
acknowledgement of receipt, and the acknowledgement of
receipt had not been received by the originator within the
time specified or agreed, or if no time has been specified or
agreed to, within a reasonable time, then the originator
may give notice to the addressee stating that no
acknowledgement of receipt has been received by him, and
specifying a reasonable time by which the acknowledgement
of receipt must be received by him and if no acknowledgement
of receipt is received within the aforesaid time limit he may
after giving notice to the addressee, treat the data message,
electronic document, electronic record or other
communication as though it has never been sent.
Time and place 14. (1) Unless otherwise agreed to between the originator
of dispatch and and the addressee, the dispatch of a data message, electronic
receipt of
document, electronic record or other communication occurs
electronic
when it enters an information system outside the control of
records.
the originator,or if the data message, electronic document,
electronic record or other communication has not left an
information system under the control of the originator or of
the party who sent it on behalf of the originator, the time
when the data message, electronic document, electronic record
or other communication is received.
(2) Unless otherwise agreed between the originator and
the addressee, the time of receipt of a data message, electronic
document, electronic record or other communication shall
be determined as follows, namely :—
(a) if the addressee has designated an information
system for the purpose of receiving data messages,
electronic document, electronic record or other
communications-
(i) receipt occurs at the time when the data
message, electronic document, electronic
record or other communication enters the
designated information system ; or
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 9
(ii) if the data message, electronic document,
electronic record or other communication is
sent to an information system of the addressee
that is not the designated information system,
receipt occurs at the time when the data
message, electronic document, electronic
record or other communication is retrieved
by the addressee.
(b) if the addressee has not designated an information
system along with specified timings, receipt occurs
when the data message, electronic document,
electronic record or other communication enters an
information system of the addressee.
(3) Unless otherwise agreed between the originator and
the addressee, the data message, electronic document,
electronic record or other communication is deemed to be
dispatched at the place where the originator has his place of
business, and is deemed to be received at the place where the
addressee has his place of business.
(4) The provisions of subsection (2) shall apply
notwithstanding that the place where the information system
is located may be different from the place where the data
message, electronic document, electronic record or other
communication is deemed to have been received under
subsection (3).
(5) For the purposes of this section–
(a) if the originator or the addressee has more than one
place of business, the principal place of business
shall be the place of business.
(b) if the originator or the addressee does not have a
place of business, his usual place of residence shall
be deemed to be the place of business ;
10 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006
(c) “usual place of residence” in relation to a body
corporate, means the place where it is registered ;
(d) if the originator and the addressee are in different
time zones, time refers to Universal Standard Time.
Variation by 15. The Minister may by regulation prescribe the matters
agreement. which may be agreed to between the parties to such contract,
involving the generating, sending, receiving, storing or
otherwise processing of data messages, electronic documents,
electronic records or other communication, in relation to the
provisions of Chapter III.
Liability of 16. (1) A Certification Service Provider shall not be
Certification subject to any civil or criminal liability for any transaction
Service under this Act in respect of third party information in the
Providers.
form of data messages, electronic documents, electronic
records or other communications to which he merely provides
access, if such liability is founded,on —
(a) the making, publication, dissemination, or
distribution of such information or any statement
made in such information ; or
(b) the infringement of any rights subsisting in or in
relation to such information.
(2) Nothing in this section shall effect–
(a) any obligation founded on contract ;
(b) the obligations of a Certification Service Provider
providing such services under a licensing or other
regulatory regime established under any written
law ; or
(c) any obligation imposed under any written law or by
a court to remove, block or deny access to any
information.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 11
17. For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared Avoidance of
that— doubt.
(a) if an offer and acceptance of an offer has been in
whole or in part expressed by means of an electronic
record, an electronic signature attached to, or
logically associated with, such electronic record
shall not be denied legal effect soley on the ground
that it is with an electronic signature ;
(b) if an electronic communication is used in the
formation of a contract, the contract shall not be
denied validity or enforceability solely on the
ground that an electronic record had been used for
such purpose ;
(c) the accepted principles of common law relating to
contracts that the offeror may prescribe the method
of communicating acceptance, shall not be affected
by anything contained in this Chapter ;
(d) a contract formed by the interaction of an automated
message system and a natural person or by the
interaction of automated message systems, shall not
be denied validity or enforceability solely on the
ground that there was no review or intervention by
a natural person of the final contrct or of each of the
actions carried out by the automated message
system.
CHAPTER IV
CERTIFICATION AUTHORITY AND CERTIFICATION OF SERVICE PROVIDERS
18. (1) There shall be a Certification Authority Designation of a
designated by the Minister for the purposes of this Act in Certification
Authority.
consultation with the Minister in charge of the subject of
Information and Communication Technology.
