Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 15
CHAPTER VI
MISCELLANEOUS
23. The provisions contained in this Act shall not apply Restriction on
to — application of
the Act.
(a) the creation or execution of a will, or any other
testamentry disposition by whatever name calld ;
(b) a license for a Telecommunication system issued
under subsection (6) of section 17 of the
Telecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991 ;
(c) a Bill of Exchange as defined in subsection(1) of
section 3 of the Bills of Exchange Ordinance
(Chapter 82) ;
(d) a Power-of-Attorney as defined in section 2 of the
Power of Attorney Ordinance (Chapter 122) ;
(e) a Trust as defined in the Trusts Ordinance
(Chapter 87) excluding a constructive, implied and
resulting trust ;
(f) a contract for sale or conveyance of immovable
property or any interest in such property ;
(g) or any other document act or transaction specified
by the Minister by regulations made under section
24.
24. (1) The Minister may, in consultation with the Regulations.
Minister in Charge of the subject of Information and
Communication Technology, make regulations in respect of
any matter required or authorized by this Act to be made, or
for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the
objectives of this Act, as specified in subsection (2).
16 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of
the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may
make regulations for and in respect of all or any of the
following matters :—
(a) specifying the electronic infrastructure and
guidelines that are—
(i) sufficiently secure to meet the needs of
Ministries, Government Departments, bodies
or agencies owned and controlled by the
Government, and Statutory bodies ;
(ii) interoperable to the maximum extent
possible ;
(b) the conditions of service of the members of the
Certification Authority in relation to the
implementation of the provisions of this Act ;
(c) the powers, duties and functions of a person, body
of persons, statutory body or institution being
appointed as a Certification Authority in terms of
section 18 and the other terms and conditions
applicable to them ;
(d) criteria for accreditation of certification service
providers under section 20, its cryptography
services, electronic signature or advance electronic
signature and security procedures or any other legal
consequences connected therewith ;
(e) the procedure for appeals against refusal to grant or
renew an accreditation certificate ;
(f) the qualifications required of persons seeking to
provide certifications services ;
(g) the procedure for the recognition of Certification
Service Providers, the issue of licences to such
Certification Service Providers and the categories
of services required to be provided by them ;
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 17
(h) the records to be maintained by the Certification
Service Providers and the manner in which
information has to be furnished to the Certification
Authority by such Certification Service Provider ;
and
(i) the matters referred to in section 15.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall as soon as convenient
after its publication in the Gazette be brought before
Parliament for approval.
(4) Every regulation, which is not so approved, shall be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval,
but without prejudice to anything previously done
thereunder.
(5) The date on which such regulations shall be deemed to
be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
25. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala text to
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail in case of
inconsistency.
prevail.
26. For the purposes of this act, unless the context Interpretation.
otherwise requires —
“addressee” means the person intended by the originator
to receive the communication but does not include
an intermediary ;
“Certification Authority” means the Certification
Authority appointed in terms of Chapter IV of the
Act ;
“certifiaction services” means any service which is
provided to the senders or recipients of information
in electronic form, or to those storing such
18 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006
information, and is designed to facilitate the use of
cryptographic techniques for the purpose of
ascertaining that the confidentiality, authenticity
and integrity of such information is secured ;
“Certification Service Provider” means a person providing
certification services within the meaning of this
Act ;
“communication” means any statement, declaration,
demand, notice or request, including an offer and
the acceptance of an offer that a person is required
to make or chooses to make in connection with an
electronic transaction within the meaning of this
Act ;
“computer” means an electronic or similar device having
information processing capabilities ;
“data message” means information generated, sent,
received ot stored by electronic, magnetic, optical
or other similar means ;
“electronic” means information generated, sent received
or stored by electronic, magnetic, optical, or similar
capacities regardless of the medium ;
“electronic document” includes documents, records,
information, communications or transactions in
electronic form ;
“electronic record” means a written document, or other
record created, stored, generated, received, or
communicated by electronic means ;
“electronic signature” means any letters, numbers, symbols,
images, characters or any combination thereof in
electronic form, applied to, incorporated in or
logically associated with an electronic document,
