2 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006
CHAPTER II
RECOGNITION DATA MESSAGES AND OTHER COMMUNICATIONS IN
ELECTRONIC FORM
Legal 3. No data message, electronic document, electronic
recognition of record or other communication shall be denied legal
electronic
recognition, effect, validity or enforceability on the ground
records.
that it is in electronic form.
Requirement for 4. Notwithstanding the fact that the provisions of written
writing. laws for the time being in force in Sri Lanka attach legal
validity to certain instruments, only if such instruments have
been reduced to writing, such requirement shall be deemed
to be satisfied by a data message, electronic document,
electronic record or other communication in electronic form
if the information contained therein is accessible so as to be
usable for subsequent reference.
Requirements 5. (1) Where the law requires information to be presented
for original or retained in its original form, that requirement shall be
form.
deemed to be satisfied by a data message, electronic
document, electronic record or other communication in
electronic form if there exists a reliable assurance as to the
integrity of the information from the time when it was made
available in electronic form and the information contained
in the data message, electronic document, electronic record
or other communication is available and can be used for
subsequent reference.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)—
(a) the criterion for assessing the integrity of
information, is whether such information has
remained complete and unaltered, apart from the
addition of any endorsement or any change which
arises in the normal course of communication,
storage or display ; and
(b) the standard for reliability of the assurance shall be
assessed having regard to the purpose for which the
information was generated and all other relevant
circumstances.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 3
6. The requirement under any law that information be Requirements for
retained, shall be deemed to be satisfied by the retention in retention.
electronic form of information contained in a data message,
electronic document, electronic record or other communication
notwithstanding the fact that such information was not
originally generated in electronic form, if—
(a) the information in the data message, electronic
document, electronic record or communication is
accessible so as to be usable for subsequent
reference ; and
(b) the data message, electronic document, electronic
record or communication is retained in the format
in which it was generated, sent or received, or in a
format which can be demonstrated to represent
accurately the information generated, sent or
received ; and
(c) such information, enables the identification of the
origin and destination of the data message,
electronic document, electronic record or other
communication and the date and time when such
information was generated, sent or received, is
retained :
Provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply
to any information, which is automatically generated solely
for the purpose of enabling an electronic record to be
dispatched or received.
7. Where any Act or enactment provides that any Legal
information or communication shall be authenticated by recognition of
affixing the signature, or that any document should be signed electronic
signatures.
or bear the signature of any person, then, notwithstanding
anything contained in such law, such requirement shall be
deemed to be satisfied, if such information or matter is
authenticated by means of an electronic signature.
Explanation.— for the purpose of this section, “sign” with its
grammatical variations and cognate expressions, shall, with
reference to a person mean, the affixing of his hand-written
signature or any mark on any document and the expression,
“signature” shall be construed accordingly.
4 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006
Use of 8. (1) Where any written law for the time being in force
electronic requires—
records and
electronic
signatures in (a) the filing of any form, application, or any other
Government document with any Government department, office,
institutions and
body or agency owned or controlled by the
statutory bodies.
Government or a statutory body in a particular
manner ;
(b) the issue of grant of any license, permit or
approval ; or
(c) the receipt of payment of money, procurement or
other transaction to be effected in a particular
manner,
then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
any other law for the time being in force, such requirement
shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such filing, creation,
retention, issue, grant, receipt, payment, procurement or
transaction, as the case may be, is effected in the form of
electronic records as may be specified by the relevent
Ministry, Government department, Institution, statutory body
or public corporation or other similar body.
(2) The relevant authority requiring the use of electronic
records specified in subsection (1), may recommend the
making of regulations for the purpose of authorizing or
facilitating the use of electronic communications or
electronic records, to the Minister in charge of the subject, by
specifying-
(a) the manner and format in which such electronic
records shall be filed, created, retained or issued ;
(b) where such electronic docments or electronic
records have to be signed, the type of electronic
signature required ;
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 5
(c) the manner and format in which such signature shall
be affixed to the electronic documents or electronic
records and the identity of, or the criteria which, a
Certification Authority or Certification Service
Provider used by such person filing the document
should possess ;
(d) the control process and procedures required in order
to secure confidentiality, authenticity and integrity
of electronic documents, records, procurements,
transactions or payments ;
(e) the manner or method of payment of any fee or
charges for the filing, creation, retention or issue of
any electronic record under paragraph (a) ;
(f) the manner of doing anything which under any such
provisions is required to be done as evidence in
writing or otherwise using a document, notice or
instrument ;
(g) the manner of doing anything which under any such
provision, is required to be or which may be, done
by post or other specified means of delivery ;
(h) the doing of anything which under any such
provision is required to be, or which may be,
authorized by a person’s signature or seal ;
(i) the making of any statement or declaration which
under any such provision is required to be made
under oath ;
(j) the making of any payment that is required to be, or
which may be, made under any such provision ;
(k) any other matter relating to electronic records or
payments that are presently specified for the
corresponding paper documents.
6 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006
Publication in 9. Where any Act or enactment provides that any
electronic forms Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification, or
of Gazette &c.,
other matter shall be published in the Gazette, then such
deemed to be
publication. requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such
rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter is
published in an electronic form of the Gazette.
No right to insist 10. Nothing contained in the preceding sections shall
on records being confer a right upon any person to insist that any Ministry,
in electronic
Government Department, Institution, Statutory Body or Public
form.
Corporation or other similar body should accept or issue, any
document in the form of electronic records or effect any
monetary transaction in electronic form.
CHAPTER III
ELECTRONIC CONTRACTS
Electronic 11. In the context of contract formation, unless otherwise
Contracts. agreed by the parties, an offer and the acceptance of an offer
may be expressed in electronic form. A contract shall not be
denied legal validity or enforceability on the sole ground
that it is in electronic form.
Attribution of 12. (1) Unless otherwise agreed as between an originator
electronic and the addressee, a data message, electronic document,
records.
electronic record or other communication shall be deemed to
be that of the originator, if it was sent-
(a) by the originator himself ;
(b) by a person who had the authority to act for and on
behalf of the originator in respect of that data
message, electronic document, electronic record or
other communication ; or
(c) by an automated information system programmed
by, or on behalf of the originator.
