14 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006
Provided further that, for the purposes of paragraphs (a)
and (b), if any information is contained in a data message,
electronic document, electronic record or other
communication made by a person—
(i) who is dead or who by reason of his bodily or mental
condition is unfit to attend as a witness ; or
(ii) who is outside Sri Lanka and where reasonable steps
have been taken to find such person and he cannot
be found ; or
(iii) who does not wish to give oral evidence through
fear ; or
(iv) who is prevented from so giving evidence,
evidence relating to such information shall, if available, be
admissible.
(3) The Courts shall, unless the contrary is proved, presume
the truth of information contained in a data message, or in any
electronic doucment or electronic record or other
communication and in the case of any data message, electronic
document, electronic record or other communication made by
a person, that the data message, electronic document or
electronic record or other communication was made by the
person who is purported to have made it and similarly, shall
presume the genuineness of any electronic signature or
distinctive identification mark therein.
Provisions of the 22. Nothing contained in the Evidence (Special
Evidence Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 1995 shall apply to and in relation
(Special
to any data message, electronic document, electronic
Provisions) Act,
No. 14 of 1995 record or other document to which the provisions of this Act
not to apply. applies.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 15
CHAPTER VI
MISCELLANEOUS
23. The provisions contained in this Act shall not apply Restriction on
to — application of
the Act.
(a) the creation or execution of a will, or any other
testamentry disposition by whatever name calld ;
(b) a license for a Telecommunication system issued
under subsection (6) of section 17 of the
Telecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991 ;
(c) a Bill of Exchange as defined in subsection(1) of
section 3 of the Bills of Exchange Ordinance
(Chapter 82) ;
(d) a Power-of-Attorney as defined in section 2 of the
Power of Attorney Ordinance (Chapter 122) ;
(e) a Trust as defined in the Trusts Ordinance
(Chapter 87) excluding a constructive, implied and
resulting trust ;
(f) a contract for sale or conveyance of immovable
property or any interest in such property ;
(g) or any other document act or transaction specified
by the Minister by regulations made under section
24.
24. (1) The Minister may, in consultation with the Regulations.
Minister in Charge of the subject of Information and
Communication Technology, make regulations in respect of
any matter required or authorized by this Act to be made, or
for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the
objectives of this Act, as specified in subsection (2).
