300 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
RULES AND FEES
Rules and fees 399. (1) Rules may be made by the Minister to provide
for winding up. for the carrying into effect of the objects of this Act, so far as
it relates to the winding up of companies.
(2) There shall be paid in respect of proceedings under
this Act in relation to the winding up of companies, such
reasonable fees as the Minister may, by regulation, prescribe.
PART XIII
ADMINISTRATORS
APPOINTMENT OF ADMINISTRATOR
Interpretation. 400. In this Part of this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires —
(a) “initial period” means the period beginning from
the date of appointment of the administrator, until—
(i) the date on which a meeting is held under
section 404 ; or
(ii) a receiver is appointed in accordance with
the provisions of subsection (2) of section
402 ; or
(iii) the expiry of twenty working days, or such
longer period as court may allow,
whichever occurs first ; and
(b) references to hire-purchase agreements include
conditional sale agreements, chattel leasing
arrangements and retention of title agreements.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 301
401. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (4) of Power of board
this section, where the board of a company considers that— to appoint
administrator.
(a) the company is or is likely to become unable to pay
its debts as they fall due ; and
(b) the appointment of an administrator will be likely
to achieve one or more of the purposes referred to in
subsection (2),
the board may resolve to appoint an administrator of a
company.
(2) The purposes for which an administrator may be
appointed are —
(a) the survival of the company and the whole or any
part of its undertaking as a viable concern ;
(b) the preparation and approval of a compromise under
Part IX or a compromise or arrangement under
Part X ; or
(c) a more advantageous realisation of the company’s
assets than would be likely on a winding up.
(3) A resolution appointing an administrator shall specify
the purpose or purposes for which the appointment is being
made, and once passed may not be rescinded without the
leave of the court.
(4) A resolution shall not be passed by the board under
this section where—
(a) an order has been made for the winding up of the
company ;
(b) a receiver has been appointed in respect of the whole
of the property and undertaking of the company,
302 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
unless the person by whom or on whose behalf the
receiver was appointed has consented to the making
of the order ; or
(c) an administrator has been appointed by the company
on a previous occasion, unless the leave of the court
to make the further appointment is first obtained.
(5) A resolution passed in contravention of subsection
(4) shall be void and of no effect.
Notice to charge 402. (1) Where the board of a company appoints an
holders of administrator, the company shall forthwith give notice of the
appointment of
appointment and of the identity of the person who has been
administrator.
appointed as administrator, to any person who is entitled to
appoint a receiver of the property and undertaking of the
company.
(2) At any time within ten working days from the date on
which notice has been given under subsection (1), a person
who is entitled to appoint a receiver of the property and
undertaking of the company may make such an appointment.
Upon the appointment of such a receiver, the administrator
shall immediately cease to hold office.
Effect of 403. (1) From and after the appointment of an
appointment of administrator, until the end of the initial period—
administrator.
(a) no resolution may be passed or order made for the
liquidation of the company ;
(b) subject to the provisions of subsection (2) of section
402, no steps be taken to enforce any security over
any property of the company or to repossess any
goods in the company’s use or possession under
any hire-purchase agreement, except with the
consent of the administrator or with the leave of the
court and subject to such terms as the court may
impose ;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 303
(c) no other proceedings and no execution or other legal
process may be commenced or continued and no
distress may be levied against the company or its
property, except with the consent of the
administrator or with the leave of the court and
subject to such terms as the court may impose.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) requires the leave of the
court, for—
(a) filing a petition to wind up the company ; or
(b) giving notice in relation to a default under a charge
over property of the company or under an agreement
relating to property in the use, possession or
occupation of the company.
INITIAL MEETING AND CONFIRMATION OF APPOINTMENT
404. (1) An administrator shall within ten working days Duty of
of being appointed, send a written notice to all creditors of administrator to
summon initial
the company so far as he is aware of their addresses—
meeting.
(a) advising them of the appointment of an
administrator ; and
(b) calling a meeting of creditors to consider whether
the appointment should be confirmed.
(2) Where no meeting of creditors is held before the expiry
of the initial period, the administrator shall cease to hold
office at the expiry of that period.
(3) A meeting of creditors called under this section shall
be conducted in accordance with the procedures specified in
the Seventh Schedule, save that all creditors shall vote as
one class.
304 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(4) Where a meeting of creditors under this section does
not confirm the appointment of the administrator, the
administrator shall cease to hold office with effect from the
close of the meeting.
(5) Where a meeting of creditors under this section
confirms the appointment of the administrator, the
administrator shall continue in office and shall prepare
proposals in accrodance with the provisions of section 406.
Effect of 405. (1) During the period for which an administrator
confirmation holds office after the expiry of the initial period—
of
administrator.
(a) no resolution may be passed or order made for the
winding up of the company ;
(b) no receiver of the property of the company may be
appointed ;
(c) no other steps may be taken to enforce any security
over any property of the company or to re-possess
any goods in the company’s use or possession under
any hire-purchase agreement, except with—
(i) the consent of the administrator ; or
(ii) the leave of the court and subject to such
terms as the court may impose ;
(d) no other proceedings and no execution or other legal
process may be commenced or continued and no
distress may be levied against the company or its
property, except with—
(i) the consent of the administrator ; or
(ii) the leave of the court and subject to such
terms as the court may impose ;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 305
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) requires the consent of the
administrator or the leave of the court for—
(a) filing a petition to wind up the company ; or
(b) giving notice in relation to a default under a charge
over property of the company or under an agreement
relating to property in the use, possession, or
occupation of the company.
ADMINISTRATOR’S PROPOSALS
406. (1) Within two months after the end of the initial Statement of
period or such longer period as the court may allow, the proposals.
administrator shall—
(a) prepare a statement of his proposals for achieving
the purpose or purposes specified in the order
appointing him ;
(b) deliver a copy of the statement to the Registrar ;
(c) send a copy of the statement to all creditors of the
company so far as he is aware of their addresses.
(2) The administrator shall call a meeting of creditors to
consider the statement, not less than five and not more than
ten working days after the date on which copies of the
statement had been sent to creditors.
(3) The administrator shall also within two months of the
date of his appointment and before the date of the meeting of
creditors to consider the statement, either—
(a) send a copy of the statement to all shareholders of
the company ; or
(b) give public notice of an address at which
shareholders of the company can obtain a copy of
the statement free of charge.
306 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(4) Where an administrator fails to comply with the
requirements of this section he shall be guilty of an offence
and be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees.
407. (1) A meeting of creditors called under the
Consideration of
proposals by provisions of section 406 shall decide whether to approve
creditors’ the administrator’s proposals.
meeting.
(2) The meeting may approve the proposals with
modifications, if the administrator consents to the
modifications.
(3) The meeting shall be conducted in accordance with
the procedure specified in the Seventh Schedule and within
ten working days of such meeting the administrator shall
give notice of the result to the Registrar.
(4) Where the admininstrator’s proposals are approved,
the administrator shall continue in office if the proposals so
provide or shall cease to hold office in the circumstances set
out in the proposals.
(5) Where the administrator’s proposals are not approved,
the administrator shall cease to hold office five working days
after the date of the meeting.
(6) Where the administrator fails to comply with the
requirements of subsection (4) he shall be guilty of an offence
and be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees.
Consequential 408. The court may on the application of a company or
orders where an administrator or former administrator, make such orders
administrator consequential upon the discharge of an administrator as it
cease to hold
thinks fit.
office.
Approval of 409. (1) Where—
substantial
revisions to (a) the proposals of the administrator have been
proposals.
approved under section 407 ; and
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 307
(b) the administrator proposes to make substantial
revisions to those proposals,
the administrator shall send to all creditors of the company
so far as he is aware of their addresses, a written statement of
the proposed revisions.
(2) The administrator shall call a meeting of the creditors
to consider the revisions, not less than five and not more than
ten working days after the date on which copies of the
statement had been sent to the creditors.
(3) The administrator shall also before the date of the
scheduled meeting of the creditors to consider the statement,
either—
(a) send a copy of the statement to all shareholders of
the company ; or
(b) give public notice of an address at which
shareholders of the company can obtain a copy of
the statement free of charge.
(4) The meeting may approve the proposed revisions with
modifications, if the administrator consents to the
modifications.
(5) The meeting shall be conducted in accordance with
the procedure specified in the Seventh Schedule, and at the
conclusion of such meeting the administrator shall give notice
of the result of the meeting to the Registrar.
NOTICE OF ADMINISTRATION
410. (1) An administrator shall forthwith after being Notice of
appointed— appointment of
administrator.
(a) give public notice of his appointment, including—
(i) his full name ;
308 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(ii) the date of the appointment ;
(iii) his office address ; and
(b) send a copy of the public notice to the Registrar.
(2) Where the administrator fails to comply with the
requirements of this section he shall be guilty of an offence
and be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees.
Notice of 411. (1) Where an administrator is appointed in respect
administration of a company, every agreement entered into and every
document issued by or on behalf of the company or the
administrator and on which the name of the company appears,
shall state clearly that an administrator has been appointed.
(2) A failure to comply with the requirements of
subsection (1) shall not affect the validity of the agreement
or document.
(3) Every person who—
(a) contravenes the requirements of subsection (1); or
(b) knowingly or willfully authorises or permits a
contravention of subsection (1),
shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
THE ADMINISTRATOR
Qualifications of 412. (1) The following persons may not be appointed
administrator. or act as administrator of a company :—
(a) a person who is under eighteen years of age;
(b) a creditor of the company;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 309
(c) a person who is or who has within the period of two
years immediately preceding the commencement
of the receivership, been an officer or employee of
the company;
(d) a person who has or who has had within the period
of two years preceding the commencement of the
administration, an interest whether direct or indirect,
in a share issued by the company;
(e) a person who is an undischarged insolvent;
(f) a person who has been adjudged to be of unsound
mind under the Mental Diseases Ordinance (Cap.
227);
(g) a person in respect of whom an order has been made
under subsection (5) of section 468;
(h) a person who was prohibited from being a director
of or being concerned or taking part in the
promotion, formation or management of a company
under section 188 of the Companies Act, No. 17 of
1982, or who would be so prohibited but for the
repeal of that Act; or
(i) a person who is prohibited from being a director or
promoter of or being concerned or taking part in the
management of a company under section 213 or
214.
(2) A body corporate shall not be appointed or act as an
administrator.
(3) A person who acts in contravention of subsection (1)
or subsection (2), shall be guilty of an offence and be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand
rupees.
310 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Validity of 413. Any act done by a person as an administrator shall
acts of be valid notwithstanding the fact that such person is not
administrator. qualified to act as an administrator.
Consent to 414. The appointment of a person as an administrator
be shall be of no effect, unless that person consents in writing to
appointmented. being appointed as an administrator.
Vacancy in 415. (1) The office of administrator shall become vacant
office of if the person holding that office resigns, dies, is removed
administrator. from office by the court or becomes disqualified under section
412.
(2) A person may resign from the office of administrator
by appointing another person as his successor, and delivering
notice in writing of the appointment of his successor to the
company and to the Registrar.
(3) The court may on the application of the company or a
shareholder or a director or creditor of the company or the
Registrar, review the appointment of a successor to an
administrator and may if it thinks fit, appoint another person
to be the administrator of the company in his place.
(4) Where for any reason other than resignation a vacancy
occurs in the office of administrator, written notice of the
vacancy shall forthwith be delivered to the company and to
the Registrar by the person vacating office or, if that person is
unable to act, by his personal representative .
(5) If as the result of the vacation of office by an
administrator no person is appointed to act as administrator,
the board of the company may appoint a person to act as
administrator.
(6) Where a vacancy occurs in the office of administrator
or a person has been appointed to act as an administrator
under subsection (5), as the case may be, the court may on the
application of the company or a shareholder or director or
creditor of the company or the Registrar, appoint another
person to be the administrator of the company.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 311
(7) An administrator appointed under subsection (5) or
subsection (6) shall, within ten working days of being
appointed deliver a notice of his appointment to the Registrar.
(8) An administrator may at any time be removed from
office by the court.
(9) A person vacating the office of administrator shall
where practicable, provide such information and give such
assistance to his successor as that person may reasonably
require.
(10) On the application of a person appointed to fill a
vacancy in the office of administrator, the court may make
any order that it considers necessary or desirable to facilitate
the performance of the administrator’s duties.
(11) Every person who fails without reasonable excuse
to comply with the requirements of subsection (4) or who
fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (7) shall be
guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
POWERS OF ADMINISTRATOR
416. (1) An administrator— Powers of
administrators.
(a) shall manage the affairs, business and property of
the company;
(b) may do all such things as may be necessary or
desirable for the management of the affairs, business
and property of the company;
(c) without limiting the powers specified in paragraphs
(a) and (b), shall have all the powers that could be
exercised by a receiver of the whole of the property
and undertaking of the company under sections 443,
445 and 446.
312 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(2) The administrator may apply to the court for directions
in relation to any matter arising in connection with the
carrying out of his functions.
(3) Where the exercise of any power conferred on the
company or its board or officers by this Act or by the company’s
articles could interfere with the exercise by the administrator
of his powers, such power shall not be exercised by the
company, its board or officers, as the case may be, except
with the consent of the administrator, which may be given
generally or in relation to particular cases.
(4) Without limiting the generality of subsection (3), any
disposal or other dealing with the property of the company
without first obtaining the consent of the administrator, which
may be given generally or in relation to particular cases,
shall unless the court otherwise orders, be void.
(5) In exercising his powers the administrator is deemed
to act as the company’s agent, and a person dealing with the
administrator in good faith and for value, shall not be required
to inquire whether the administrator is acting within his
powers.
Power to deal 417. (1) The administrator of a company may dispose
with charged of or otherwise exercise his powers in relation to any property
property &c.,
of the company which is subject to a security to which this
subsection applies, as if the property were not subject to the
security.
(2) Provisions of subsection (1) shall apply to any security
which, when it was created, was a floating charge.
(3) Where on an application by the administrator, the court
is satisfied that the disposal (with or without other assets)
of—
(a) any property of the company subject to a security to
which subsection (1) does not apply; or
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 313
(b) any goods in the possession of the company under a
hire-purchase agreement,
would be likely to promote the purpose or one or more of the
purposes specified in the order appointing the administrator,
the court may by order authorise the administrator to—
(c) dispose of the property as if it were not subject to
the security; or
(d) dispose of the goods as if all rights of the owner
under the hire purchase agreement were vested in
the company.
(4) Where property is disposed of under subsection (1),
the holder of the security has the same priority in respect of
any property of the company directly or indirectly
representing the property disposed of, as he would have had
in respect of the property subject to the security.
(5) It shall be a condition of an order made by the court
under subsection (3) that—
(a) the net proceeds of the disposal; and
(b) where those proceeds are less than such amount as
may be determined by the court to be the net amount
that would be realised on a sale of the property or
goods in the open market, such sums as may be
required to make good the deficiency,
shall be applied towards discharging the sums secured by the
security, or payable under the hire purchase agreement.
(6) Where a condition imposed under subsection (5)
relates to two or more securities, that condition requires the
net proceeds of the disposal and any sum mentioned in
paragraph (b) of that subsection to be applied towards
discharging the sums secured by those securities, in the order
of their priorities.
314 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(7) A copy of any order made under subsection (3) shall
within ten working days after the making of the order, be sent
by the administrator to the Registrar.
(8) Where the administrator fails to comply with the
requirements of subsection (7), he shall be guilty of an offence
and be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees.
General duties 418. (1) The administrator on his appointment shall
of administrator. take into his custody or control, all the property to which the
company is or appears to be entitled.
(2) The administrator shall manage the affairs, business
and property of the company—
(a) at any time before a proposal has been approved
under section 407 in accordance with any directions
of the court; and
(b) at any time after a proposal has been so approved, in
accordance with the proposal as from time to time
revised and with any directions of the court.
(3) The administrator shall summon a meeting of the
creditors of the company if—
(a) he is requested to do so in writing by one tenth in
value of the creditors; or
(b) he is directed to do so by the court.
419. (1) The administrator shall, where—
Discharge of
administrator or
variation of (a) it appears to him that the purpose or each of the
resolution
purposes specified in the resolution appointing him
appointing
administrator. either have been achieved or is incapable of
achievement;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 315
(b) he is required to do so by a meeting of the company’s
creditors summoned for the purpose,
may at any time, give notice to the company notifying that
the—
(c) administration ought to be terminated; or
(d) resolution appointing him as administrator ought
to be varied to specify an additional purpose.
(2) The administrator shall cease to hold office five
working days after giving a notice under paragraph (c) of
subsection (1), or on such later date as may be specified in
the notice, but in any event no more than ten working days
after the date on which the notice is given.
(3) Where the administrator gives notice under paragraph
(d) of subsection (1), the resolution shall be deemed to be
amended accordingly.
(4) Where a notice is given under subsection (1), the
administrator shall within ten working days after giving the
notice, deliver a copy of the notice to the Registrar.
(5) Where the administrator fails to comply with
subsection (4) he shall be guilty of an offence and be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
420. (1) The remuneration to be paid to and expenses Remuneration
of the administrator and any indemnity to which he is entitled and expenses of
under section 421, shall be paid out of the property of the administrator.
company, and shall have priority over any security which, as
created, was a floating charge.
(2) The court may on the application of the administrator
or the company or any creditor of the company, review or fix
the remuneration of the administrator in respect of any period
at a level which is reasonable in the circumstances.
316 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Liability of 421. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2)
administrator. and (3), an administrator is personally liable—
(a) on a contract entered into by the administrator in
the exercise of any of the administrator’s powers;
and
(b) for payment of wages or salary that during his
administration, accrue under a contract of
employment entered into before his appointment, if
notice of the termination of the contract is not
lawfully given within ten working days after the
date of appointment.
(2) The court may, on the application of an administrator,
extend the period within which notice of the termination of a
contract is required to be given under paragraph (b) of
subsection (1), on such terms and conditions as the court
thinks fit, provided that application is made before the expiry
of the period referred to in such paragraph.
(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (6), an
administrator is personally liable to the extent specified in
subsection (4) for rent and any other payments becoming
due under an agreement subsisting at the date of his
appointment, relating to the use, possession, or occupation
of property by the company.
(4) The liability of an administrator under subsection (3)
is limited to that portion of the rent or other payments which
is attributable to the period, commencing ten working days
after the date of the appointment of the administrator and
ending on—
(a) the date on which the administration ends; or
(b) the date on which the company ceases to use,
possess, or occupy the property,
whichever is the earlier.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 317
(5) The court may, on the application of an administrator—
(a) limit the liability of the administrator to a greater
extent than that specified in subsection (4); or
(b) exempt the administrator from liability under
subsection (3).
(6) Nothing in subsection (3) or subsection (4)—
(a) shall be taken as giving rise to an adoption by an
administrator of an agreement referred to in
subsection (3); or
(b) shall render an administrator liable to perform any
other obligation under such an agreement.
(7) An administrator is entitled to an indemnity out of
the property of the company in respect of his personal liability
under this section.
422. (1) The court may relieve a person who has acted Relief from
as an administrator from all or any personal liability incurred liability.
in the course of the administration, if it is satisfied that—
(a) the liability was incurred solely by reason of a defect
in the appointment of the administrator or in the
order of the court under which the administrator
was appointed; and
(b) the administrator acted honestly and reasonably and
ought in the circumstances to be exempted.
(2) The court may exercise its powers under subsection (1)
subject to such terms and conditions as it thinks fit.
318 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
ASCERTAINMENT AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPANY’S AFFAIRS
Obligations of 423. (1) Where an administrator is appointed, the company
company and and every director of the company shall—
directors to
provide
(a) make available to the administrator all books,
information &c.
documents, and information relating to the business,
affairs and property of the company in the
company’s possession or under its control;
(b) if required to do so by the administrator, verify by
affidavit that the books, documents, and information
are complete and correct;
(c) give the administrator such assistance as the
administrator may reasonably require;
(d) if the company has a common seal, make the
common seal available for use by the administrator.
(2) Where the company or a director fails to comply with
the requirements of subsection (1), the court may on the
application of the administrator, make an order requiring the
company or a director of the company to comply with the
same.
MISCELLANEOUS
Creditors’ 424. (1) Where a meeting of creditors has approved the
committee. administrator’s proposals, the meeting may if it thinks fit,
establish a committee (hereinafter referred to as the “creditors’
committee”), to exercise the functions conferred on it under
this Act.
(2) Where a creditors’ committee is established, it may on
giving not less than five working days notice, require the
administrator to attend before it at any reasonable time and
provide it with such information relating to the carrying out
of his functions as it may reasonably require.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 319
425. (1) During any time at which an administrator holds Protection of
interests of
office, a creditor or shareholder of a company may apply to
creditors and
the court for an order under this section, on the ground that— share holders.
(a) the company’s affairs, business and property are
being or have been managed by the administrator
in a manner which is unfairly discriminatory or
unfairly prejudicial to the interests of the creditor or
shareholder; or
(b) any actual or proposed act or omission of the
administrator is or would be unfairly discriminatory
or unfairly prejudicial to the interests of such creditor
or shareholder.
(2) On an application being made to court under this
section, court may, where it considers it just and equitable to
do so and subject to the provisions of subsection (3), make
such order as it thinks fit including, without limiting the
generality of this subsection, and order—
(a) regulating the future management by the
administrator of the company’s affairs, business and
property;
(b) requiring the administrator to refrain from doing or
continuing an act complained of by the applicant
or to do an act which the applicant has complained
he has omitted to do;
(c) requiring the calling of a meeting of creditors or
shareholders for the purpose of considering such
matters as the court may direct;
(d) discharging the administrator and making such
consequential provisions as the court thinks fit.
320 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(3) An order under this section shall not prejudice or
prevent—
(a) the implementation of a compromise or arrangement
approved under Part IX or Part X of this Act; or
(b) where the application for the order was made more
than twenty working days after the approval of any
proposals or any revised proposals under section
407 or section 409, as the case may be, the
implementation of those proposals or revised
proposals.
Application to 426. (1) The provisions contained in sections 453, 454,
administrator of 460, 468, 469 and 470 shall apply to an administrator and to
provisions
a company under administration with all necessary
relating to
receivers. modifications, and in particular as if—
(a) the administrator were a receiver appointed by the
court ;
(b) references to the property in receivership were
references to the property and undertaking of the
company ; and
(c) references to the grantor were references to the
company.
PART XIV
FLOATING CHARGES
Company may 427. (1) A company may grant a charge to which this
grant floating Part of this Act applies (in this Act referred to as a “floating
charge. charge”) over the whole or any part of the property and
undertaking of the company, for the purpose of securing a
debt or any other obligation incurred or to be incurred by the
company or any other person.
