Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 385
505. (1) Where any document by which shares in or Interpretation of
debentures of a company incorporated outside Sri Lanka are provisions as to
prospectuses.
offered for sale to the public would, where the company
concerned had been a company within the meaning of this
Act, have been deemed by virtue of the provisions of section
43 to be a prospectus issued by the company, that document
shall be deemed to be for the purposes of this Part of this Act,
a prospectus issued by the company.
(2) An offer of shares or debentures for subscription or
sale to any person, whose ordinary business it is to buy or sell
shares or debentures, whether as principal or agent, shall not
be deemed to be an offer to the public for the purposes of this
Part.
(3) In this Part, the expressions “prospectus”, “shares” and
“debentures” shall have the same meanings as and when used
in relation to a company incorporated under this Act.
PART XIX
ADVISORY COMMISSION
506. (1) For the purposes of advising the Minister on Appointment
any matters in relation to the law relating to companies, the &c. of Advisory
Commission.
Minister may—
(a) constitute a Commission (hereinafter referred to as
the “Advisory Commission”) consisting of not less
than five and not more than ten persons with suitable
qualifications ; and
(b) appoint one of such persons to be Chairman of the
said Advisory Commission.
(2) It shall be the duty of the Advisory Commission—
(a) to inquire into and report to the Minister on any
matter or question relating to companies and the
386 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
law applicable to companies, which may be referred
to it from time to time by the Minister ;
(b) to review the law relating to companies from time to
time and to make proposals to the Minister for the
alteration, modification or addition to such law ;
(c) in making the recommendations referred to in
paragraph (a) or (b), to consult and take into
consideration where the Advisory Commission
deems necessary, the views of trade chambers,
professional organisations, monetary institutions,
governmental authorities and the general public.
(3) The Registrar shall be an ex-officio member of the
Advisory Commission, and shall also function as its Convener
and Secretary.
(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (6), (7) and
(8), the term of office of the members of the Advisory
Commission shall be three years :
Provided that a member appointed in place of a member
who resigns or is removed or otherwise vacates office, shall
hold office for the unexpired part of the term of office of the
member whom he succeeds.
(5) Any member of the Advisory Commission who vacates
office by effluxion of time, shall be eligible for re-
appointment.
(6) A member of the Advisory Commission may resign
from office by letter to that effect addressed to the Minister.
(7) All members of the Advisory Commission shall hold
office during good behaviour, and may be removed from
office by the Minister.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 387
(8) Where a member is temporarily unable to discharge
the duties of his or her office on account of ill-health, absence
from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may appoint
some other person to act as a member in his or her place.
(9) The Advisory Commission may, with the approval of
the Minister, appoint such officers and servants as it thinks
fit to assist the Advisory Commission in carrying out its duties
under this Part of this Act.
(10) The members of the Advisory Commission, its
Secretary and other officers and servants may be paid such
remuneration out of the Fund, as may be determined by the
Minister.
PART XX
COMPANIES DISPUTES BOARD
507. (1) The Minister may constitute a board (in this Companies
Act referred to as the “Companies Disputes Board”) for the Disputes Board.
purposes of carrying out the functions conferred on such
Board by the provisions of this Part of this Act.
(2) The Companies Disputes Board shall consist of not
less than three and not more than five persons appointed by
the Minister, with substantial experience in relation to the
law relating to companies or the administration of companies.
(3) The Minister may appoint one of the members of the
Companies Disputes Board to be the President of the Board.
(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (6), (7) and
(8), the term of office of the members of the Companies
Disputes Board shall be five years :
Provided that a member appointed in place of a member
who resigns or is removed or otherwise vacates office, shall
hold office for the unexpired part of the term of office of the
member whom he succeeds.
