190 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Compromise, 237. No proceedings brought by a shareholder or a
settlement or director or in which a shareholder or a director intervenes, as
continuance of
the case may be, with leave of the court under section 234,
derivative
action. may be settled or compromised or discontinued without the
approval of the court.
RATIFICATION
Ratification of 238. (1) The purported exercise by a director or the
certain actions of board of directors of a company or of a power vested in the
directors.
shareholders or any other person, may be ratified or approved
by those shareholders or that person, in the same manner in
which the power may be exercised.
(2) The purported exercise of a power that is ratified under
subsection (1) is deemed to be and always to have been, a
proper and valid exercise of that power.
(3) The ratification or approval under this section of the
purported exercise of a power by director or the board of
directors does not prevent the court from exercising a power
which might, apart from the ratification or approval, be
exercised in relation to the action of the director or the board.
PART VIII
AMALGAMATIONS
Amalgamations. 239. Two or more companies may amalgamate and
continue as one company, which may be one of the
amalgamating companies or may be a new company. Public
notice of such amalgamation shall be given in accordance
with the provisions of this Act.
Amalgamation 240. (1) Every company which proposes to amalgamate
proposal. shall approve in accordance with the provisions of section
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 191
241 an amalgamation proposal setting out the terms of the
amalgamation, and in particular —
(a) the name of the amalgamated company, if it is the
same as the name of one of the amalgamating
companies;
(b) the registered office of the amalgamated company;
(c) the full name and residential address of each of the
directors of the amalgamated company;
(d) the full name and address of the secretary of the
amalgamated company;
(e) the share structure of the amalgamated company,
specifying—
(i) the number of shares of the company;
(ii) the rights, privileges, limitations, and
conditions attached to each share of the
company, if different from those set out in
subsection (2) of section 49;
(f) the manner in which the shares of each amalgamating
company are to be converted into shares of the
amalgamated company;
(g) if shares of an amalgamating company are not to be
converted into shares of the amalgamated company,
any consideration that the holders of those shares
are to receive in place of shares of the amalgamated
company;
(h) any payment to be made to a shareholder or director
of an amalgamating company, other than a payment
of the kind described in paragraph (g);
192 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(i) details of any arrangement necessary to complete
the amalgamation and to provide for the subsequent
management and operation of the amalgamated
company;
(j) the date on which the amalgamation is intended to
become effective.
(2) If the proposed articles of the amalgamated company
are different from the model articles, a copy of the proposed
articles shall be attached to and shall form part of the
amalgamation proposal.
(3) Where shares of one of the amalgamating companies
are held by or on behalf of another of the amalgamating
companies, the amalgamation proposal—
(a) shall provide for the cancellation of those shares
without payment or the provisions of other
consideration when the amalgamation becomes
effective ;
(b) shall not provide for the conversion of those shares
into shares of the amalgamated company.
Approval of 241. (1) Before an amalgamation proposal is put to the
amalgamation shareholders, the board of an amalgamating company shall
proposal. resolve that—
(a) in its opinion the amalgamation is in the best
interests of the company ; and
(b) it is satisfied that the amalgamated company will
immediately after the amalgamation becomes
effective, satisfy the solvency test.
(2) The directors who vote in favour of a resolution
required under subsection (1) shall sign a certificate stating
that in their opinion, the conditions set out in that subsection
are satisfied and setting out the reasons for reaching that
opinion.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 193
(3) The board of each amalgamating company shall send
to each shareholder of the company, not less than twenty
working days before the amalgamation is proposed to take
effect—
(a) a copy of the amalgamation proposal ;
(b) copies of the certificates given by the directors of
each board ;
(c) a statement setting out the rights of shareholders
under section 93 ;
(d) a statement of any material interests of any director
in the proposal, whether in that capacity or
otherwise;
(e) such further information and explanation as may be
necessary to enble a reasonable shareholder to
understand the nature and implications for the
company and its shareholders of the proposed
amalgamation.
(4) The board of each amalgamating company shall, not
less than twenty working days before the date on which
amalgamation is intended to become effective—
(a) send a copy of the amalgamation proposal to every
secured creditor of the company ; and
(b) give public notice of the proposed amalgamation,
including a statement to the effect that—
(i) copies of the amalgamation proposal are
available for inspection by any shareholder
or creditor of an amalgamating company, or
any person to whom an amalgamating
company is under an obligation, at the
registered offices of the amalgamating
194 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
companies and at such other places as may
be specified, during normal business hours ;
and
(ii) a shareholder or creditor of an amalgamating
company or any person to whom an
amalgamating company is under an
obligation, is entitled to be supplied free of
charge with a copy of the amalgamation
proposal upon request made to an
amalgamating company.
(5) An amalgamation may be effected if the amalgamation
proposal is approved—
(a) by a special resolution of the shareholders of each
amalgamating company, in accordance with the
provisions of section 92 ; and
(b) if a provision in the amalgamation proposal would,
if contained in an amendment to an amalgamating
company’s articles or otherwise proposed in relation
to that company, require the approval of an interest
group, by a special resolution of that interest group.
(6) For the purposes of this section, the solvency test shall
be applied without taking into account the stated capital of
the amalgamated company.
(7) A director who fails to comply with the requirements
of subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand
rupees.
(8) If the court is satisfied that giving effect to an
amalgamation proposal would unfairly prejudice a creditor
of an amalgamating company or a person to whom an
amalgamating company is under an obligation, it may on
application made in that behalf by that person made at any
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 195
time before the date on which the amalgamation becomes
affective, make any order as it thinks fit in relation to the
proposal, and may without limiting the generality of this
subsection, make an order—
(a) directing that effect shall not be given to the
proposal ;
(b) directing the company or its board to reconsider the
proposal or any part of it.
(9) An order under subsection (8) may be made on such
terms and conditions as the court thinks fit.
242. (1) A company and one or more other companies Short form
that are directly or indirectly wholly owned by it, may amalgamation.
amalgamate and continue as one company (being the
company first referred to) without complying with the
provisions of section 240 and section 241, if—
(a) the amalgamation is approved by a resolution of
the board of each amalgamating company ; and
(b) each resolution provides that—
(i) the shares of each amalgamating company,
other than the amalgamated company, will
be cancelled without payment or other
consideration ;
(ii) the articles of the amalgamated company will
be the same as the articles of the company
first referred to ;
(iii) the board is satified that the amalgamated
company will immediately after the
amalgamation becomes effective, satisfy the
solvency test ; and
196 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(iv) the person or persons named in the resolution
will be the director or directors of the new
company.
(2) Two or more companies each of which is directly or
indirectly wholly owned by the same company, may
amalgamate and continue as one company without complying
with the provisions of section 240 or section 241 if—
(a) the amalgamation is approved by a resolution of
the board of each amalgamating company ;
(b) each resolution provides that—
(i) the shares of all but one of the amalgamating
companies will be cancelled without
payment or other consideration ;
(ii) the articles of the amalgamated company will
be the same as the articles of the
amalgamating company whose shares are not
cancelled ;
(iii) the board is satisfied that the amalgamated
company will immediately after the
amalgamation becomes affective, satisfy the
solvency test ; and
(iv) the person or persons named in the resolution
will be the director or directors of the new
company.
(3) The board of each amalgamating company shall, not
less than twenty working days before the date on which the
amalgamation is intended to become effective—
(a) give written notice of the proposed amalgamation
to every secured creditors of the company ; and
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 197
(b) give public notice of the proposed amalgamation.
(4) The resolutions approving an amalgamation under
this section shall, taken together, be deemed to constitute an
amalgamation proposal that has been approved.
(5) The directors who vote in favour of a resolution
required under subsection (1) or subsection (2), as the case
may be, shall sign a cerificate stating that in their opinion,
the conditions set out in subsection (1) or subsection (2) are
satisfied, and setting out the reasons for reaching that opinion.
(6) For the purposes of this section, the solvency test shall
be applied without taking into account the stated capital of
the amalgamated company.
(7) A director who fails to comply with subsection (5)
shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding two hundred thousand rupees.
243. For the purpose of effecting an amalgamation, the Registration of
following documents shall be delivered to the Registrar for amalgamation
registration :— proposal.
(a) the approved amalgamation proposal ;
(b) any certificates required under subsection (2) of
section 241 or subsection (5) of section 242 ;
(c) a certificate signed by the board of each
amalgamating company stating that the
amalgamation has been approved in accordance with
the provisions of this Act and the articles of the
company ;
(d) a consent from each of the persons named in the
amalgamation proposal as a director of the
amalgamated company, to act as a director of that
company, as required by section 203 ; and
198 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(e) a consent from each of the persons named in the
amalgamation proposal as secretary of the
amalgamated company, to act as secretary of that
company, as required by subsection (2) section 221.
Certificate of 244. (1) The Registrar shall forthwith after receipt of
amalgamation. the documents required under section 243—
(a) if the amalgamated company is the same as one of
the amalgamating companies, issue a certificate of
amalgamation in the prescribed form ; or
(b) if the amalgamated company is a new company—
(i) enter particulars of the company on the
Register ; and
(ii) issue a certificate of amalgamation in the
prescribed form together with a certificate of
incorporation in the prescribed form.
(2) If an amalgamation proposal specifies a date on which
the amalgamation is intended to become effective, and that
date is the same as or later than the date on which the Registrar
receives the documents, the certificate of amalgamation, and
any certificate of incorporation shall be deemed to have affect
on the date specified in the amalgamation proposal.
(3) Notice of completion of such amalgamation shall be
given to the public by the company.
Effect of 245 On the date shown in a certificate of amalgamation—
certificate of
amalgamation.
(a) the amalgamation becomes effective ;
(b) if it has the same name as of one of the amalgamating
companies, the amalgamated company shall have
the name specified in the amalgamation proposal ;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 199
(c) the Registrar shall remove all particulars relating to
the amalgamating companies, other than the
amalgamated company, from the Register ;
(d) the amalgamated company succeeds to all the
property, rights, powers, and privileges of each of
the amalgamating companies ;
(e) the amalgamated company succeeds to all the
liabilities and obligations of each of the
amalgamating companies ;
(f) proceedings pending by or against an amagamating
company may be continued by or against the
amalgamated company ;
(g) a conviction, ruling, order, or judgment in favour of
or against an amalgamating company, may be
enforced by or against the amalgamated company ;
(h) the stated capital of the amalgamated company shall
be the sum certified by the auditor of the
amalgamated company ; and
(i) any provisions of the amalgamation proposal that
provide for the conversion of shares or rights of
shareholders in the amalgamating companies, shall
have effect according to their tenor.
246. (1) Where any person pursuant to an offer made to Power to acquire
the holders of voting rights of a company acquires not less shares of
shareholders
than ninety per centum of the voting rights of such company,
dissenting from
such person may within three months of such acquisition scheme or
give notice in the prescribed manner to all the shareholders contract
holding the outstanding shares carrying voting rights, the approved by
majority.
desire to acquire such shares, and unless the court thinks fit
to order otherwise, upon an application made by any
shareholder to the court within fourteen days of the receipt of
200 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
such notice for the acquisition of his shares, shall be entitled
to acquire such shares on terms not less favourable than the
terms made under the aforementioned offer.
(2) A copy of the notice in relation to the acquisition
referred to in subsection (1) shall be forwarded to the company,
the shares of which are to be so acquired.
(3) Where any person has given notice under the
provisions of subsection (1), on the expiration of one month
from the date on which such notice was given, such person
shall forward the due consideration to the company, the shares
of whcih are to be so acquired and the company secretary of
such company shall register such acquirer as the holder of all
such shares.
(4) Any consideration received by the company shall be
held by the company on trust for the person or persons entitled
to the shares in respect of which the sum or other consideration
was received. The company secretary of such company shall
forward such consideration due, to all shareholders without
any undue delay.
(5) Where after reasonable inquiry is made at such
intervals and the publication of notices in all three languages
in daily newspapers, the person entitled to any consideration
cannot be found and six years have elapsed since the
consideration has been received or the company is wound
up, the consideration together with any interest, dividend or
other benefit that has accrued from it, shall be paid by the
company to the Public Trustee.
(6) In the case where the company is wound up—
(a) the trust shall terminate ;
(b) the company or, as the case may be, the
liquidator shall sell the consideration other
than cash and any benefit other than cash
that has accrued from the consideration ; and
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 201
(c) a sum representing ;
(i) the consideration so far as it is cash,
(ii) the proceeds of any sale under sub-
paragraph (b) above; and
(iii) any interest, dividend or other benefit
that has accrued from the consideration,
shall be deposited in the name of the Public Trustee.
(7) The expenses of any such inquiry and press notices as
is mentioned above shall be defrayed out of the money or
other property held in trust referred to in subsection (4) above.
PART IX
COMPROMISES WITH CREDITORS
247. In this Part of this Act, unless the context otherwise Interpretation.
requires—
“compromise” means a compromise between a
company and its creditors, including a
compromise—
(a) cancelling all or part of any debt of the
company ;
(b) varying the rights of its creditors or the terms
of a debt ;
(c) relating to an alteration of a company’s articles
that affects the likelihood of the company’s
ability to pay a debt;
“creditor” includes a person who in a liquidation,
would be entitled to claim in accordance with the
provisions of section 357, that a debt is owing to
that person by the company ; and
