368 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(ii) which should have been stated in any return
or other document which should have, but
actually has not, been furnished by the
company,
as at the date or dates specified in the notice; and
(c) to produce before a date specified in the notice, any
book, register or other document kept or required to
be kept by the company, in connection with its
business or transactions.
(2) Where a company fails to comply with any direction
given by the Registrar under subsection (1)—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one
hundred thousand rupees;
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
PART XVII
APPLICATION OF ACT TO EXISTING COMPANIES
Application of 485. (1) In the application of the provisions of this Act
Act to existing to existing companies, it shall apply—
companies.
(a) in the case of a limited company other than a
company limited by guarantee, as if the company
has been formed and registered under the provisions
of this Act as a limited company;
(b) in the case of a company limited by guarantee, as if
the company had been formed and registered under
the provisions of this Act as a company limited by
guarantee;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 369
(c) in the case of a company other than a limited
company, as if the company had been formed and
registered under the provisions of this Act as an
unlimited company; and
(d) in the case of a company which is a people’s company,
as if had been formed and registered under the
provisions of this Act as a limited company.
(2) An existing company which is a private company, shall
continue under this Act as a private company to which Part II
of this Act applies.
(3) An existing company which is an off-shore company,
shall continue under this Act as an off-shore company to
which Part XI of this Act applies.
(4) Any reference express or implied, to the date of
registration of an existing company, shall be construed as a
reference to the date on which the company was first
incorporated under any written law.
(5) An existing company—
(a) which is a private limited company formed and
registered under the Joint Stock Companies
Ordinance 1861, the Joint Stock Banking
Ordinance 1897, and the Companies Ordinance
(Cap. 145) shall be deemed to have changed its
name to include the suffix “ (Pvt) Limited” or the
abbreviation “(Pvt) Ltd.”; and
(b) which is a public listed company, shall be deemed
to have changed its name to include the suffix
“Public Limited Company” or the abbreviation
“PLC”.
(6) (a) The Registrar shall enter the new name on the
register in place of the former name, consequent to the deemed
change of name under the provisions of subsection (5), and
issue a fresh certificate of incorporation including the said
suffix or the said abbreviation, as the case may be, in such
certificate of incorporation.
370 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(b) Such fresh certificate shall be issued after the Registrar
has assigned a new number in terms of the provisions of
section 487.
486. (1) The model articles shall not apply to an existing
Provisions
relating to company unless it resolves that they shall apply, under
articles of subsection (1) of paragraph (b) of section 15.
existing
companies.
(2) The memorandum of association of an existing
company shall be deemed to form part of the articles of the
company.
(3) The articles of an existing company shall continue to
be the articles of such company for the purposes of this Act,
and where such articles has adopted all or any of the rules set
out in Table A of the First Schedule to the Companies Act,
No. 17 of 1982, those rules shall be deemed to be
incorporated in such articles of the company, as if set out in
full in those articles.
Provisions 487. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), the
relating to number which an existing company has been assigned by
company
the Registrar for administrative purposes, shall be the
numbers of
company number of that company.
existing
companies
&c. (2) Within a period of twelve months from the coming
into operation of this Act, all existing companies shall apply
to the Registrar to assign a new number as its company
number, in a form as may be prescribed by the Registrar. The
new number so assigned shall be entered in the register and
also on the fresh certificate of incorporation to be issued
under the provisions of subsection (6) of section 485.
(3) Where an existing company fails to comply with the
requirements imposed under subsection (2) of this section
within the time specified therein, the Registrar shall cause to
be published the name of such company in a daily newspaper
in the Sinhala, Tamil and English Language, and where such
company continues to fail to comply with those requirements
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 371
thereafter, the Registrar shall, within six months of the
publication of its name in the newspapers, strike off the name
of such company from the register maintained by him under
the provisions of section473.
(4) During the period of six months referred to in
subsection (3), in addition to a director of the company, a
shareholder of such company or a person who has registered
a charge under section 102 or a person who has a money
claim pending before a court or in arbitration proceedings,
shall also be entitled to apply to the Registrar to have a new
number assigned to such company under subsection (2).
(5) Where a company’s name is struck off from the register
under subsection (3), all property and rights whatsoever
vested in or held on trust for the company immediately before
the date on which the name is struck off, (including leasehold
property but not including property held by the company on
trust for any other person), shall vest in and be at the disposal
of the State.
PART XVIII
OVERSEAS COMPANIES
488. For the purposes of this Part of this Act, the Interpretation.
expressions —
“director” in relation to a company, includes any person
in accordance with whose directions or instructions
the directors of the company are accustomed to act;
“overseas company” means any company or body
corporate incorporated outside Sri Lanka, which —
(a) after the appointed date, established a place
of business within Sri Lanka; or
