208 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
PART X
APPROVAL OF ARRANGEMENTS, AMALGAMATIONS, AND
COMPROMISES BY COURT
255. In this Part of this Act, unless the context otherwise
Interpretation.
requires—
“arrangement” includes a re-organisation, of the shares
and the stated capital of a company;
“company” includes a registered overseas company;
or of the shares or the stated capital of the
company; and
“creditor” includes a person who in a liquidation, would
be entitled to claim in accordance with the
provision of section 357 that a debt is owing to
that person by the company.
Court approval 256. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act or
of arrangements, the provisions contained in the articles of a company, the
amalgamation
court may on the application of —
and
compromises.
(a) a company;
(b) an administrator appointed under Part XIII; or
(c) with the leave of the court, any shareholder or creditor
of a company,
order that an arrangement or amalgamation or compromise
shall be binding on the company and on such other persons
or classes of persons as the court may specify. Any such order
may be made on such terms and conditions as the court thinks
fit.
(2) Before making an order under subsection (1), the court
may, on the application of the company or the administrator
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 209
or any shareholder or creditor or other person who appears to
the court to be interested or of its own motion, make any one
or more of the following orders :—
(a) an order that notice of the application together with
such information relating to it as the court thinks
fit, be given in such form and in such manner and to
such persons or classes of persons as the court may
specify;
(b) an order directing the holding of a meeting or
meetings of shareholders or any class of shareholders
or creditors or any class of creditors of a company,
to consider and if determined fit, to approve in such
manner as the court may specify, the proposed
arrangement or amalgamation or compromise. The
court may for that purpose determine the
shareholders or creditors that constitute a class of
shareholders or creditors of a company;
(c) an order requiring that report on the proposed
arrangement or amalgamation or compromise be
prepared for the court by a person specified by the
court, and if the court thinks fit, be supplied to the
shareholders or any class of shareholders or creditors
or any class of creditors of a company or to any
other person who appears to the court to be
interested;
(d) an order as to the payment of the costs incurred in
the preparation of any such report;
(e) an order specifying the persons who shall be entitled
to appear and be heard on the application to approve
the arrangement or amalgamation or compromise.
(3) An order made under this section shall have effect on
and from the date specified in the order.
210 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(4) Within ten working days of an order being made by
the court under this section, the company shall ensure that a
copy of the order is delivered to the Registrar.
(5) Where a company fails to comply with the
requirements of subsection (4)—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one
hundred thousand rupees; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
Court may make 257. (1) Without limiting the powers conferred under
additional section 256, the court may for the purpose of giving effect to
orders.
any arrangement or amalgamation or compromise approved
under that section, either by the order approving the
arrangement or amalgamation or compromise or by any
subsequent order, provide for and prescribe terms and
conditions relating to —
(a) the transfer or vesting of movable or immovable
property, assets, rights, powers, interests, liabilities,
contracts and engagements;
(b) the issue of shares, securities or policies of any kind;
(c) the continuation of legal proceedings;
(d) the liquidation or the removal from the Register
without liquidation, name and particulars of any
company;
(e) the provision to be made for persons who voted
against the arrangement or amalgamation or
compromise at any meeting called in accordance
with an order made under paragraph (b) of subsection
(2) of section 256, or who appeared before the court
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 211
in opposition to the application, to approve the
arrangement or amalgamation or compromise;
(f) such other matters as are necessary or desirable to
give effect to the arrangement or amalgamation or
compromise.
(2) An order made by the court under subsection (1) shall
have effect according to its tenor.
(3) Within ten working days of an order being made by
the court under this section, the company shall ensure that a
copy of the order is delivered to the Registrar.
(4) Where a company fails to comply with the
requirements of subsection (3)—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one
hundred thousand rupees; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
258. The court shall not approve an arrangement or Application of
amalgamation or compromise under section 256 if it could Part VIII.
be effected under Part VIII or this Part or under any other
provisions of this Act, unless it is satisfied that it is not
reasonably practicable to do so.
259. The provisions of section 253 shall apply with such Application of
modifications as may be necessary, in relation to any section 253 to
compromise approved under section 256. compromise
approved under
this Part.
212 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
PART XI
PROVISIONS RELATING TO OFFSHORE COMPANIES
Interpretation. 260. In this Part of this Act, “company” includes a
company or a body corporate incorporated under the laws of
any foreign country.
Company 261. (1) Any company may make an application to the
incorporated for Registrar in accordance with the provisions of this Part of
business outside this Act to be registered in Sri Lanka as an off-shore company
Sri Lanka. and to be so referred to, and in the case of a company
incorporated abroad, to be deemed to be incorporated in
Sri Lanka, as if it had been incorporated under the provisions
of this Act.
(2) An application for registration under subsection (1)
shall have annexed thereto the following documents :—
(a) a certified copy of the charter, statute or
memorandum and articles of association of the
company or other instrument constituting or
defining the constitution of the company, and where
such instrument is not in an official language or in
English, a translation of the instrument in such
language as may be specified by the Registrar;
(b) a list of the directors or those managing the affairs of
the company, containing their full names, addresses,
occupations and the offices they hold in the
company;
(c) the names and addresses of one or more persons who
are resident in and are citizens of Sri Lanka, who is
or are authorised to represent the company;
(d) a statement containing the full address of—
(i) the registered or principal office of the
company in the country of incorporation; and
(ii) the office of the company in Sri Lanka;
