Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 11
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
(4) Where—
(a) a document that creates or is evidence of a legal
obligation of a company, is issued or signed by or
on behalf of the company ; and
(b) the name and company number of the company are
not correctly stated in the document,
every person who issued or signed the document will be
liable to the same extent as the company if the company
fails to discharge the obligation, unless-
(c) the person who issued or signed the document
proves, that the person in whose favour the
obligation was incurred was aware at the time the
document was issued or signed, that the obligation
was incurred by the company ; or
(d) the court is satisfied that it would not be just and
equitable for that person to be so liable.
(5) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2), a company
may use a generally recognized abbreviation of any word in
its name, unless it is misleading to do so.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
13. The articles of association of a company may provide Contents of
for any matter not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act articles.
other than the First Schedule hereto, and in particular may
provide for—
(a) the objects of the company ;
12 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(b) the rights and obligations of shareholders of the
company ; and
(c) the management and administration of the company.
Application of 14. The articles of association set out in the First
model articles. Schedule hereto (hereinafter referred to as “model articles”)
shall apply in respect of any company other than a company
limited by guarantee, except to the extent that the company
adopts articles which exclude, modify or are inconsistent
with the model articles.
Adoption or 15. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any
amendment of conditions contained in its articles, a company may at any
articles.
time by special resolution —
(a) adopt new articles ;
(b) if it has articles which differ from the articles of
association set out in the First Schedule, adopt such
articles as its articles ; or
(c) alter its articles.
(2) Where a company by a special resolution alters its
articles, it shall give notice of such resolution to the Registrar
within ten working days, setting out in full the text of the
resolution and of any new articles or of any alterations to the
company’s articles.
(3) Where a company fails to comply with the requirement
of subsection (2)—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees ; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 13
16. Subject to the provision of section 89, the articles of Effect of articles.
a company shall bind the company and its shareholders as if
there were a contract between the company and its
shareholders. In particular, all money payable by any
shareholder to the company under the articles, shall be a debt
due from that shareholder to the company.
17. (1) Where the articles of a company sets-out the Effect of
objects of the company, there shall be deemed to be a statement of
objects in
restriction placed by the articles in carrying on any business
articles.
or activity that is not within those objects, unless the articles
expressly provide otherwise.
(2) Where the articles of a company provide for any
restriction on the business or activities in which the company
may engage—
(a) the capacity and powers of the company shall not
be affected by such restriction ; and
(b) no act of the company, no contract or other
obligation entered into by the company and no
transfer of property by or to the company, shall be
invalid by reason only of the fact that it was done in
contravention of such restriction.
(3) Nothing in subsection (2) shall affect —
(a) the ability of a shareholder or director of the
company to make an application to court under
section 233 to restrain the company from acting in a
manner inconsistent with a restriction placed by the
articles, unless the company has entered into a
contract or other binding obligation to do so; or
(b) the liability of a director of the company for acting
in breach of the provisions of section 188.
14 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Right of 18. (1) A shareholder has a right at any time to request
shareholders to a a company in writing for a copy of the articles of the company,
copy of the
and subject to subsection (2), the company shall comply
articles.
with such request within five working days of the date of
receipt and such request.
(2) A company to which a request is made under
subsection (1) may—
(a) require the shareholder to pay a fee of not more than
five hundred rupees before providing a copy of the
articles; or
(b) decline to provide a copy of the articles, if a copy
has been provided to that shareholder within the
previous six months.
(3) Where a company fails to comply with the
requirements of subsection (1) —
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two
hundred thousand rupees; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand
rupees.
COMPANY CONTRACTS ETC.
Method of 19. (1) A contract or other enforceable obligation may
contracting. be entered into by a company as follows :—
(a) an obligation which, if entered into by a natural
person is required by law to be in writing signed by
that person and be notarially attested, may be
entered into on behalf of the company in writing
signed under the name of the company by —
(i) two directors of the company;
