Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 387
(8) Where a member is temporarily unable to discharge
the duties of his or her office on account of ill-health, absence
from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may appoint
some other person to act as a member in his or her place.
(9) The Advisory Commission may, with the approval of
the Minister, appoint such officers and servants as it thinks
fit to assist the Advisory Commission in carrying out its duties
under this Part of this Act.
(10) The members of the Advisory Commission, its
Secretary and other officers and servants may be paid such
remuneration out of the Fund, as may be determined by the
Minister.
PART XX
COMPANIES DISPUTES BOARD
507. (1) The Minister may constitute a board (in this Companies
Act referred to as the “Companies Disputes Board”) for the Disputes Board.
purposes of carrying out the functions conferred on such
Board by the provisions of this Part of this Act.
(2) The Companies Disputes Board shall consist of not
less than three and not more than five persons appointed by
the Minister, with substantial experience in relation to the
law relating to companies or the administration of companies.
(3) The Minister may appoint one of the members of the
Companies Disputes Board to be the President of the Board.
(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (6), (7) and
(8), the term of office of the members of the Companies
Disputes Board shall be five years :
Provided that a member appointed in place of a member
who resigns or is removed or otherwise vacates office, shall
hold office for the unexpired part of the term of office of the
member whom he succeeds.
388 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(5) Any member of the Companies Disputes Board who
vacates office by effluxion of time, shall be eligible for re-
appointment.
(6) A member of the Companies Disputes Board may
resign from office by letter to that effect addressed to the
Minister.
(7) A member of the Companies Disputes Board shall hold
office during good behaviour, and may be removed from office
by the Minister.
(8) Where a member is temporarily unable to discharge
the duties of his office on account of ill-health, absence from
Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may appoint some
other person to act as a member in his place.
(9) The Companies Disputes Board may, with the approval
of the Minister, appoint such officers and servants as it thinks
fit to assist the Companies Disputes Board in carrying out its
duties under this Part of this Act.
(10) The members of the Companies Disputes Board and
its officers and servants may be paid such remuneration out
of the Fund, as may be determined by the Minister.
Board members 508. (1) The parties to a dispute—
may mediate
disputes.
(a) arising in giving effect to the provisions of this Act;
or
(b) which relates to the affairs or management of any
company,
may, with the approval of the President of the Companies
Disputes Board, refer the dispute for mediation before a
member of the Board.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 389
(2) A court may if it thinks fit, refer any proceeding
pending before such court to mediation before a member of
the Companies Disputes Board, with the consent of all parties
to that proceeding. The proceedings shall be stayed until
either a settlement is reached or a notice is given to the court
by such Board, that the mediation has not resulted in a
settlement.
(3) Where the parties to a dispute or proceeding referred
to mediation under this section agree to settle that dispute or
proceeding—
(a) the settlement agreement shall be recorded in writing
and signed by the parties and by the member of the
Board who acted as mediator ; and
(b) a certified copy of the settlement agreement shall
be filed in the court, and shall have effect as if it
were a judgment of the court.
(4) Regulations may be made prescribing the procedure
for the conduct of proceedings in any dispute referred to
mediation under this section.
(5) Where the parties to a dispute or proceeding referred
to mediation under this section do not agree to settle that
dispute or proceeding within three months of the reference to
mediation, or within any extended period agreed to by all
those parties, the member of the Board shall forthwith give
notice—
(a) to the parties ; and
(b) if the matter was referred to mediation by the court,
to the court,
that the mediation has not resulted in a settlement.
390 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Privilege in 509. All statements made in the course of or in relation
respect of to a mediation before a member of the Companies Disputes
mediations
Board—
proceeding.
(a) shall be deemed to be made for the purposes of
arriving at a settlement of the dispute or proceeding
referred to mediation ;
(b) shall not be disclosed to any person other than the
parties to the mediation and their legal advisers,
without the consent of all parties to the mediation ;
(c) shall not be admissible in evidence in any civil or
criminal proceedings without the consent of all
parties to the mediation.
Fees payable 510. (1) Where a matter is referred to mediation under
in respect of section 508, the parties shall pay to the Companies Disputes
mediation.
Board such amount in respect of the costs incurred and such
fee as may be agreed to by the President of the Board and the
parties to the mediation. The parties shall, subject to any
agreement to the contrary, bear the costs and the fee payable
equally.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), all amounts payable under
this section shall be credited to the Fund established under
this Act.
(3) The President may direct that any fee payable under
this section in respect of a mediation, shall be paid by the
Board in whole or in part, to the member of the Board who
acted as mediator.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 391
PART XXI
OFFENCES
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENCES
511. Where in any return, report, certificate, balance
Penalty for false
sheet or other document, required by or for the purposes of statement.
this Act, any person wilfully makes a statement which is false
in any material particular knowing it to be false, shall be
guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding one million rupees or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding five years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
512. (1) Any person who, with intent to defraud or Penalty for
deceive a person— falsification of
records.
(a) destroys, parts with, mutilates, alters or falsifies, or
is a party to the destruction, mutilation, alteration
or falsification of any register, accounting records,
book, paper or other document belonging or relating
to a company ; or
(b) makes or is a party to the making of a false entry in
any register, accounting records, book, paper or other
document belonging or relating to a company,
shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding one million rupees or to a term of
imprisonment not exceeding five years or to both such fine
and imprisonment.
513. Where any person or persons or trade carry on Penalty for
business under any name or title of which “Limited” or any improper use of
contraction or imitation of that word is the last word, that word “Limited”.
person or those persons shall, unless duly incorporated with
limited liability, be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
