Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 23
after the making of a distribution which is deemed not to
have been validly made, each shareholder who agreed to the
making of such distribution will be personally liable to the
company, to repay to the company so much of the distribution
which the company is not able to recover from the
shareholders to whom the distribution was made.
(6) Where an action for recovery is brought against a
shareholder under subsection (4) or (5), and the court is
satisfied that the company could by making a distribution of
a lesser amount have satisfied the solvency test, the court
may —
(a) permit the shareholder to retain; or
(b) relieve the shareholder from liability in respect of,
an amount equal to the value of any distribution that the
company could properly have made under the circumstances.
PART III
COMPANIES LIMITED BY GUARANTEE
32. Any two or more persons may apply to form a
Application for
company limited by guarantee by making an application to incorporation of
the Registrar for the same in the prescribed form signed by a company
limited by
each of the initial members, together with the following
guarantee.
documents :—
(a) the articles of association of the company;
(b) a consent under section 203 from each of the initial
directors, to act as a director of the company; and
(c) a consent under section 221 from the initial
secretary, to act as secretary of the company.
24 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Company 33. (1) A company limited by guarantee shall have
limited by articles which sets out—
guarantee
must have
(a) the objects of the company; and
articles.
(b) the amount which each member of the company
undertakes to contribute to the assets of the company,
in the event of such company being put into
liquidation.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall prevent a company
limited by guarantee from providing in its articles, that
specified clauses of the articles of association set out in the
First Schedule hereto, shall apply to that company and any
such provision shall have effect accordingly.
Power to 34. (1) Where the Registrar is satisfied that an
dispose with association about to be formed as a company limited by
“limited” in guarantee is to be formed for promoting commerce, art,
the name of
science, religion, charity, sport, or any other useful object,
charitable
and other and intends to apply its profits, if any, or other income in
companies. promoting its objects, and to prohibit the payment of any
dividend to its members —
(a) the Registrar may by licence direct that the
association be registered as a company limited by
guarantee, without the addition of the word
“Limited” to its name; and
(b) the association may be registered accordingly and
shall on registration enjoy all the privileges and
subject to the provisions of this section, be subject
to all the obligations of a limited company.
(2) Where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Registrar—
(a) that the objects of a company limited by guarantee
are restricted to those specified in subsection (1)
and to objects incidental or conducive to them; and
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 25
(b) that by its articles the company is required to apply
its profits or other income in promoting its objects
and is prohibited from paying any dividend to its
members,
the Registrar may by licence authorize the company to make
by special resolution a change in its name including or
consisting of the omission of the word “Limited”. The
provisions of subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5) of section 8
shall apply to a change of name under this subsection.
(3) A licence granted under this section may be subject
to such terms and conditions as the Registrar thinks necessary
for the purpose of ensuring that the association conforms to
the requirements of subsection (1). The terms and conditions
shall be binding on the association and shall, if the Registrar
so directs, be incorporated into the articles of such company.
(4) No alteration may be made in the articles of a company
to which a licence has been granted under this section, without
the prior written approval of the Registrar.
(5) The provisions of section 6 shall not apply in respect
of a company to which a licence is granted under this section.
(6) A licence granted under this section may at any time
be revoked by the Registrar where the company to which the
licence is granted fails to comply with the requirements of
subsection (1) or subsection (3). Upon revocation of a licnece,
the Registrar shall enter upon the register the word “Limited”
at the end of the name of the company, and the company
shall cease to enjoy the exemptions and privileges granted
by the provisions of this section. The provision of subsections
(3) and (4) of section 8 shall apply to a change of name under
this subsection.
(7) Before a licence is revoked under subsection (6), the
Registrar shall give the company notice in writing of his
26 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
intention and shall afford the association or company an
opportunity of being heard in opposition to the revocation.
(8) Where an association in respect of which a licence
under this section is in force alters the provisions of its
constitution with respect to its objects, the Registrar may,
unless he sees fit to revoke the licence, vary, add to or alter
the terms and conditions subject to which the license was
granted.
Provisions 35. (1) The provisions contained in the list of sections
which apply to of this Act specified in the Third Schedule hereto, shall not
companies
apply to and in respect of a company limited by guarantee.
limited by
guarantee.
(2) The provisions of this Act other than the sections
referred to in subsection (1), shall apply to a company limited
by guarantee with all necessary modifications, as if—
(a) the company were a limited company ;
(b) references to shareholders were references to
members of the company ;
(c) each member held one share in the company ; and
(d) references to the share register were references to
the register of members.
PART IV
SHARES AND DEBENTURES
PROSPECTUS
Dating of 36. A prospectus issued by or on behalf of a company or
prospectus. in relation to a company to be formed shall bear a date, and
such date shall unless the contrary is proved, be taken as the
date of publication of such prospectus.
