14 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Right of 18. (1) A shareholder has a right at any time to request
shareholders to a a company in writing for a copy of the articles of the company,
copy of the
and subject to subsection (2), the company shall comply
articles.
with such request within five working days of the date of
receipt and such request.
(2) A company to which a request is made under
subsection (1) may—
(a) require the shareholder to pay a fee of not more than
five hundred rupees before providing a copy of the
articles; or
(b) decline to provide a copy of the articles, if a copy
has been provided to that shareholder within the
previous six months.
(3) Where a company fails to comply with the
requirements of subsection (1) —
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two
hundred thousand rupees; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand
rupees.
COMPANY CONTRACTS ETC.
Method of 19. (1) A contract or other enforceable obligation may
contracting. be entered into by a company as follows :—
(a) an obligation which, if entered into by a natural
person is required by law to be in writing signed by
that person and be notarially attested, may be
entered into on behalf of the company in writing
signed under the name of the company by —
(i) two directors of the company;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 15
(ii) if there be only one director, by that director;
(iii) if the articles of the company so provide, by
any other person or class of persons; or
(iv) one or more attorneys appointed by the
company,
and be notarially executed;
(b) an obligation which, if entered into by a natural
person is required by law to be in writing and signed
by that person, may be entered into on behalf of the
company in writing signed by a person acting under
the company’s express or implied authority;
(c) an obligation which if entered into by a natural
person is not required by law to be in writing, may
be entered into on behalf of the company in writing
or orally, by a person acting under the company’s
express or implied authority.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall apply to a
contract or other obligation —
(a) whether or not that contract or obligation is entered
into in Sri Lanka; and
(c) whether or not the law governing the contract or
obligation is the law of Sri Lanka.
(3) For the purpose of this section, a company may use a
generally recognised abbreviation of any word in the name,
unless it is misleading to do so.
20. (1) Subject to its articles, a company may by an Attorneys.
instrument in writing executed in accordance with the
provisions of section 19, appoint a person as its attorney
either generally or in relation to a specified matter.
16 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(2) Any act of the attorney carried out in accordance with
the instrument referred to in subsection (1), shall be binding
on the company.
(3) The provisions of the Powers of Attorney Ordinance
(Chapter 122) and the law relating to powers of attorney
executed by a natural person, shall with necessary
modifications, apply in relation to a power of attorney
executed by a company to the same extent as if the company
was a natural person, and as if the commencement of the
liquidation or if there is no liquidation, the removal of the
company from the Register, was the death of a person.
Authority of 21. (1) A company or a guarantor of an obligation of
directors, the company or any person claiming under the company,
officers and
may not assert against a person dealing with that company or
agents.
with any person who has acquired rights from the company,
that —
(a) the articles of the company have not been complied
with; or
(b) the persons named in the most recent notice filed
under section 223 or the annual return delivered
under section 131of this Act, are not the directors or
the secretary of the company, as the case may be; or
(c) a person held out by a company as a director, officer
or agent of the company—
(i) has not been duly appointed; or
(ii) does not have authority to exercise the powers
and perform the duties that are customary in
the business of the company or are normal for
a director, officer or agent of a company
carrying on business of the kind carried on by
that company; or
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 17
(d) a document issued by any director, the secretary of
the company or by any officer or agent, with actual
or normal authority to issue the document, is not
valid or genuine,
unless that person has, or by virtue of that person’s position
with or relationship to the company, ought to have
knowledge to the contrary.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall apply even in a
situation where a person referred to in paragraphs (b) to (d) of
that subsection acts fraudulently or forges a document that
appears to have been signed on behalf of the company, unless
the person dealing with the company or who has acquired
rights from the company, has actual knowledge of such fraud
or forgery.
22. Subject to the provisions of subsection (3) of section No constructive
105, a person shall not be affected by or deemed to have notice.
notice or knowledge of the contents of the articles of company
or any other document relating to a company, by reason only
of the fact that it has been delivered to the Registrar for filing
or is available for inspection at any office of the company.
PRE-INCORPORATION CONTRACTS
23. (1) For the purpose of this section and sections 24 pre-
incorporation
and 25 of this Act, the expression “pre-incorporation
contracts may be
contract” means — ratified.
(a) a contract purported to have been entered into by a
company before its incorporation; or
(b) a contract entered into by a person on behalf of a
company before and in contemplation of its
incorporation.
