4 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(3) A certificate of incorporation issued under this section
in-respect of any company, shall be conclusive evidence of
the fact that—
(a) all the requirements under this Act relating to the
incorporation of a company have been complied
with ; and
(b) the company has been incorporated under this Act
on the date specified in such certificate of
incorporation.
COMPANY NAMES
Requirements as 6. The name of every—
to name.
(a) limited company other than a listed company, shall
end in the word “Limited” or by the abbreviation
“Ltd” ;
(b) private company, shall end in the words “(Private)
Limited” or by the abbreviation “(Pvt) Ltd” ; and
(c) limited company which is a listed company, shall
end in the words “Public Limited Company” or by
the abbreviation “PLC”.
Restrictions on 7. (1) A company shall not be registered by a name
names. which—
(a) is identical with the name of any other company or
of any registered overseas company ;
(b) contains the words “Chamber of Commerce”, unless
the company is a company which is to be registered
under a licence granted under section 34 without
the addition of the word “Limited” to its name ; or
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 5
(c) is in the opinion of the Registrar, misleading.
(2) Except with the consent of the Minister given having
regard to the national interest, no company shall be registered
by a name which contains the words :—
(a) “President”, “Presidential” or other words which in
the opinion of the Registrar suggest or are calculated
to suggest, the patronage of the President or
connection with the Government or any Government
Department ;
(b) “Municipal”, “incorporated” or other words which
in the opinion of the Registrar suggest or are
calculated to suggest, connection with any
Municipality or other local authority or with any
society or body incorporated by an Act of
Parliament;
(c) “Co-operative” or “Society” ; or
(d) “National”, “State” or “Sri Lanka” or other words
which in the opinion of the Registrar suggest or are
calculated to suggest, any connection with the
Government or any Government Department.
(3) In determining for the purposes of subsection (1)
whether one name is identical with another, the following
words shall be disregarded :—
(a) the word “the”, where it is the first word of the name;
(b) the following words and expressions, where they
appear at the end of the name :
(i) “company” ;
(ii) “and company” ;
(iii) “company limited” ;
6 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(iv) “and company limited” ;
(v) “limited” ;
(vi) “unlimited” ;
(vii) “(Private) limited” ;
(viii) “Public Limited Company” ;
(c) abbreviations referred to in section 6, where they
appear at the end of the name ;
(d) type and case of letters, accents, spaces between
letters and punctuation marks ; and
(e) “and” or “&”.
Change of 8. (1) A company may change its name by special
name. resolution with the prior approval in writing of the Registrar.
(2) Where a company has resolved to change its name
under subsection (1), it shall within ten working days of the
change, give notice of the change to the Registrar in the
prescribed form.
(3) Upon receiving notice that a company has changed
its name, the Registrar shall—
(a) enter the new name on the Register in place of the
former name ; and
(b) issue a fresh certificate of incorporation in the
prescribed form, altered to indicate—
(i) the change of name ; and
(ii) where the company has become or has ceased
to be a private company, the fact of that change.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 7
(4) The change of name shall not affect any rights or
obligations of the company, or render ineffective any legal
proceedings by or against the company. Any legal
proceedings that might have been continued or commenced
against it by its former name, may be continued or commenced
against it by its new name.
(5) Where a company fails to comply with
subsection(2)—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees ; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
9. (1) A company shall within thirty working days of
Public notice of
its incorporation under this Act, give public notice of its name.
incorporation, specifying —
(a) the name and company number of the company ;
and
(b) the address of the company’s registered office.
(2) Where a company changes its name in accordance
with the provisions of section 8, it shall within twenty working
days of such change give public notice of it, specifying—
(a) the former name of the company ;
(b) the company number ;
(c) the address of the registered office of the company ;
and
(d) the new name of the company.
8 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(3) Where a company fails to publish the notice required
under subsection (1) or (2) :—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees ; and
(b) the Registrar shall cause the relevant notice to be
published.
Direction to 10. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 7, the
change name. Registrar may direct a company to change its name in the
following circumstances :—
(a) where through inadvertence or otherwise, it has been
registered with a name which contravenes the
provisions of section 6 ;
(b) a request is made to the Registrar to do so within
three months of the company giving public notice
of the name objected to under section 9, by another
company or by a registered overseas company,
where—
(i) the name of the first-mentioned company is
so similar to the name of the requesting
company that it is likely to cause confusion;
and
(ii) the requesting company was registered with
its current name before the first-mentioned
company was registered with the name
objected to ; or
(c) a request is made to the Registrar to do so by any
person and the Registrar is satisfied that the name
was not applied for in good faith for the purpose of
identifying the company.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 9
(2) A company shall comply with a direction issued by a
Registrar under subsection (1) within a period of six weeks
from the date of the issue of such direction, or such longer
period as the Registrar may in his discretion permit.
(3) A company which fails to comply with a direction
issued under this section shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred
thousand rupees.
11. (1) Where a company ceases to be a private company, Change of name
it shall be deemed to have resolved to change its name in upon change of
accordance with the provisions of subsection (1) of section status of
company.
8, by omitting the word “(Private)”.
(2) Where a company which was not a private company
becomes a private company under section 29, it shall be
deemed to have resolved to change its name in accordance
with the provisions of subsection (1) of section 8 by
substituting for the word “Limited” at the end of its name, of
the words “(Private) Limited”.
(3) Where a limited company becomes a listed company,
it shall be deemed to have resolved to change its name in
accordance with the provisions of subsection (1) of section 8
by substituting for the word “Limited” at the end of its name,
of the words “Public Limited Company”.
(4) Where a limited company ceases to be a listed
company, it shall be deemed to have resolved to change its
name in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1) of
section 8, by substituting for the words “Public Limited
Company” at the end of its name, of the word “Limited”.
(5) Where a company is deemed to have resolved to
change its name under this section, it shall within ten working
days of such change, give public notice of the change and
send a copy of such notice to the Registrar, and the provisions
of subsections (3) and (4) of section 8, shall apply to and in
relation to such change of name.
10 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(6) Where a company fails to comply with the
requirements of subsection (5) —
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees ; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty an offence and be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
Use of company 12. (1) A company shall ensure that its name and its
name and company number are clearly stated in—
company
number.
(a) all business letters of the company ;
(b) all notices and other official publications of the
company ;
(c) all bills of exchange, promissory notes,
endorsements, cheques and orders for money or
goods signed on behalf of the company ;
(d) all invoices, receipts and letters of credit of the
company ;
(e) all other documents issued or signed by the
company which creates or is evidence of a legal
obligation of the company ; and
(f) the company seal, if any.
(2) Every company shall ensure that its name and its
company number are clearly displayed at its registered office.
(3) Where a company fails to comply with the provisions
of subsection (1) or subsection (2)—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees ; and
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 11
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
(4) Where—
(a) a document that creates or is evidence of a legal
obligation of a company, is issued or signed by or
on behalf of the company ; and
(b) the name and company number of the company are
not correctly stated in the document,
every person who issued or signed the document will be
liable to the same extent as the company if the company
fails to discharge the obligation, unless-
(c) the person who issued or signed the document
proves, that the person in whose favour the
obligation was incurred was aware at the time the
document was issued or signed, that the obligation
was incurred by the company ; or
(d) the court is satisfied that it would not be just and
equitable for that person to be so liable.
(5) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2), a company
may use a generally recognized abbreviation of any word in
its name, unless it is misleading to do so.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
13. The articles of association of a company may provide Contents of
for any matter not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act articles.
other than the First Schedule hereto, and in particular may
provide for—
(a) the objects of the company ;
