Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 1
[Certified on 20th March, 2007]
L.D.—O. 44/2005
AN ACT TO AMEND AND CONSOLIDATE THE LAW RELATING TO
COMPANIES
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Companies Act, No. 07 Short title and
of 2007. date of
operation.
(2) The provisions of this Act shall come into operation
on such date (hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date”)
as the Minister may appoint, by Order published in the
Gazette.
PART I
INCORPORATION OF COMPANIES AND RELATED MATTERS
ESSENTIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF COMPANIES
2. (1) A company incorporated under this Act shall, by Legal status and
the name by which it is registered from time to time, be a capacity of a
company.
body corporate.
(2) A company shall have, both within and outside Sri
Lanka—
(a) subject to the provisions of section 13 of the Act,
the capacity to carry on or undertake any business
or activity, do any act or enter into any transaction ;
and
(b) subject to the provisions of any written law of Sri
Lanka or of any other country, all the rights, powers
and privileges necessary for the purposes of
paragraph (a).
2 —PL000786—425 (11/2005)
2 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Different types 3. (1) A company incorporated under this Act may be
of companies. either—
(a) a company that issues shares, the holders of which
have the liability to contribute to the assets of the
company, if any, specified in the company’s articles
as attaching to those shares (in this Act referred to as
a “limited company”) ; or
(b) a company that issues shares, the holders of which
have an unlimited liability to contribute to the assets
of the company under its articles (in this Act referred
to as an “unlimited company”) ; or
(c) a company that does not issue shares, the members
of which undertake to contribute to the assets of the
company in the event of its being put into
liquidation, in an amount specified in the company’s
articles (in this Act referred to as a “company limited
by guarantee”).
(2) Where a limited company is incorporated as a private
company or as an off-shore company, the provisions of Part II
or Part XI shall apply respectively, to such a company.
INCORPORATION OF COMPANIES
Method of 4. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), any
incorporating a person or persons may apply to incorporate a company, other
company. than a company limited by guarantee, by making an
application for the same to the Registrar in the prescribed
form signed by each of the initial shareholders, together with
the following documents :-
(a) a declaration stating that to the best of such person
or persons knowledge, the name of the company is
not identical or similar to that of an existing
company;
