320 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(3) An order under this section shall not prejudice or
prevent—
(a) the implementation of a compromise or arrangement
approved under Part IX or Part X of this Act; or
(b) where the application for the order was made more
than twenty working days after the approval of any
proposals or any revised proposals under section
407 or section 409, as the case may be, the
implementation of those proposals or revised
proposals.
Application to 426. (1) The provisions contained in sections 453, 454,
administrator of 460, 468, 469 and 470 shall apply to an administrator and to
provisions
a company under administration with all necessary
relating to
receivers. modifications, and in particular as if—
(a) the administrator were a receiver appointed by the
court ;
(b) references to the property in receivership were
references to the property and undertaking of the
company ; and
(c) references to the grantor were references to the
company.
PART XIV
FLOATING CHARGES
Company may 427. (1) A company may grant a charge to which this
grant floating Part of this Act applies (in this Act referred to as a “floating
charge. charge”) over the whole or any part of the property and
undertaking of the company, for the purpose of securing a
debt or any other obligation incurred or to be incurred by the
company or any other person.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 321
(2) A floating charge may apply to any property of the
company whether held by the company at the time of creation
of the floating charge or acquired thereafter, including—
(a) movable and immovable property ;
(b) uncalled capital ;
(c) circulating assets, including cash, stock in trade,
raw materials, book debts and other receivables.
(3) A floating charge created under this Part of this Act
shall, notwithstanding the provisions contained in any other
law, have effect as a security over the property of the company
to which it is expressed to apply, in the manner and to the
extent specified in this Part—
(a) subject to the provisions of the Registration of
Documents Ordinance (Cap. 117) where applicable;
and
(b) subject to section 103 of the Mortgage Act (Cap.
89).
428. (1) A floating charge may be created by a company Instrument
only by the execution under the name of the company in creating floating
charge.
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of subsection
(1) of section 19, of an instrument which is expressed to
create such a charge.
(2) An instrument which creates a floating charge over
property which includes land, shall be registrered under the
Registration of Documents Ordinance (Cap. 117) as an
instrument affecting that land.
(3) An instrument which creates a floating charge over
property which includes movable property, shall be registered
under the Registration of Documents Ordinance (Cap. 117)
as if it were a bill of sale. Where the floating charge also
322 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
includes land, the provisions of sections 16 to 22 of the
Registration of Decuments Ordinance (Cap. 117) shall not in
any way affect the instrument, in so far as it relates to land.
(4) The provisions of sections 17 and 20 of the
Registration of Documents Ordinance (Cap. 117) shall apply
in relation to a floating charge, as if registration of that
floating charge—
(a) under Chapter IV of that Ordinance in the district in
which the registered office of the company is
situated; and
(b) under Part VI of this Act,
were registration under Chapter IV of that Ordinance, in every
district in Sri Lanka.
(5) For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in section 63 of
the Mortgage Act (Cap. 89) shall apply to or in relation to
any instrument creating a floating charge.
Provisions of 429. (1) The terms specified in the Eleventh Schedule
instrument hereto shall be implied terms of every instrument which
creating floating
creates a floating charge, except to the extent that the terms
charge.
of any such instrument expressly exclude or are inconsistent
with those implied terms.
(2) An instrument creating a floating charge may contain—
(a) provisions prohibiting or restricting the creation of
any fixed security or any other floating charge
having priority over or ranking equally with the
floating charge ; or
(b) provisions regulating the order in which the floating
charge shall rank with any other subsisting or future
floating charges or fixed securities over that
property or any part of it.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 323
430. (1) Subject to the terms of the instrument under Dealing with
which it is created, the creation of a floating charge in respect property subject
to floating
of any property shall not affect the ability of the company to
charge before
deal with that property in the normal course of business.
attachment.
(2) Where—
(a) any property of a company is subject to a floating
charge which has not attached to that property ; and
(b) the company has sold or disposed of that property,
any person who receives that property from the company
shall be liable to account to the person entitled to the benefit
of the floating charge for the value of the property, in the
circumstances set out in subsection (3) or subsection (4).
(3) A person may be liable to account for the value of
property received by that person under subsection (2), if—
(a) the sale or disposal of the property did not take place
in the normal course of the company’s business ;
and
(b) that person knew or by reason of his relationship
with the company ought to have known, that the
sale or disposal did not take place in the normal
course of the company’s business.
(4) A person may be liable to account for the value of
property received by that person under subsection (2), if—
(a) the sale or disposal of the property is a breach of the
instrument creating the floating charge ; and
(b) that person knew or by reason of his relationship
with the company ought to have known, of the terms
of the instrument and the circumstances giving rise
to a breach of those terms.
324 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Ranking of 431. (1) Where any property of a company is subject
floating both to a floating charge and to a fixed security arising by
charges.
operation of law, the fixed security shall have priority over
the floating charge.
(2) Where any property of a company is subject both to a
floating charge and to a fixed security granted by the company,
the fixed security shall have priority over the floating charge,
unless—
(a) the instrument creating the floating charge—
(i) prohibited the granting by the company of
that fixed security ; and
(ii) had been registered under Part VI of this Act
before the date on which the fixed security
was granted by the company ; or
(b) the instrument creating the floating charge is
expressed to take priority over the fixed security,
and the person entitled to the benefit of the fixed
security has consented in writing to that priority ; or
(c) before the date on which the fixed security was
granted by the company, the floating charge had
attached to the property pursuant to section 433
and either—
(i) a receiver had been appointed in respect of
the property and the person to whom the fixed
security was granted had notice of the
appointment of the receiver ; or
(ii) the person to whom the fixed security was
granted knew or by reason of his relationship
with the company ought to have known,
that—
(A) the floating charge had attached to that
property ;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 325
(B) the grant of the fixed security was a
breach of the instrument creating the
floating charge ; or
(C) the grant of the fixed security did not
occur in the normal course of the
company’s business.
(3) Where any property of a company is subject to more
than one floating charge, those floating charges shall rank
among themselves according to the date of registration under
Part VI, subject to any provision to the contrary in an
instrument creating a floating charge which has been
consented to in writing by the person entitled to the benefit
of the floating charge, the priority of which is postponed by
that provision.
(4) For the avoidance of doubt and subject to the terms of
the instrument under which it is created, the priority of a
floating charge shall not be affected by the fact that all or any
part of the debts or obligations secured by that floating charge,
were incurred or arose after —
(a) the creation and registration by the company of a
subsequent floating charge ; or
(b) the grant by the company of any fixed security in
respect of the whole or any part of the property
comprised in the floating charge.
(5) A person shall be deemed to have received notice of
the appointment of a receiver for the purposes of subsection
(2), if—
(a) the person knows or ought by reason of his
relationship with the company to know that a
receiver has been appointed ; or
(b) public notice of the appointment of the receiver has
been given in accordance with paragraph (b) of
subsection (1) of section 440.
326 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(6) Without limiting the provisions contained in
subsection (3) of section 427, where land owned by a company
is subject to a floating charge and to a fixed security which
has been registered under the Registration of Documents
Ordinance (Cap. 117), the fixed charge shall have priority
over the floating charge, unless the floating charge was
registered in repsect of that land under the Registration of
Documents Ordinance (Cap. 117) prior to the registration of
the fixed security.
Alteration and 432. (1) The terms of an instrument creating a floating
discharge of charge may be varied in the same manner in which an
floating charges. instrument may be executed by the company.
(2) Subject to the modifications contained in subsection
(3) of this section subsections (1) and (3) of section 102,
sections 103 and 108 shall apply to an instrument of
alteration under this section, which—
(a) prohibits or restricts creation of any fixed security
or any other floating charge having priority over or
ranking equally with the floating charge ;
(b) varies or otherwise regulates the order of and the
ranking of the floating charge in relation to fixed
securities or to other floating charges ;
(c) releases property from the floating charge ; or
(d) where the floating charge secures a specified
obligation or a specified amount, alters that
obligation or increases that amount, as the case may
be.
(3) The provisions of subsections (1) and (3) of sections
102, 103 and 108 shall apply in respect of an instrument of
alteration to which subsection (2) applies, as if—
(a) references to a charge were references to an alteration
to a floating charge ; and
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 327
(b) references to the creation of a charge, were references
to the execution of the instrument of alteration.
(4) Where an alteration to the terms of an instrument
creating a floating charge has the effect of extending the
floating charge to property not previously comprised in the
floating charge, the priority of the floating charge in respect
of the additional property shall be determined, as if the
instrument by which the amendments were affected were an
instrument creating a new floating charge in respect of that
additional property.
(5) A floating charge may be released in respect of the
whole or any part of the property comprised in it, in the same
manner in which such a charge may be created.
433. (1) A floating charge shall attach to and constitute Circumstances in
a fixed charge in respect of all property comprised in the which floating
charge attaches
charge, on the occurrence of any of the following events :—
to property.
(a) the appointment of a receiver of the whole or any
part of the property or undertaking of the company,
whether under the terms of the instrument creating
the floating charge or otherwise ;
(b) the commencement of the winding up of the
company ;
(c) the disposal by the company of the whole or any
part of its undertaking, other than in the normal
course of its business ;
(d) the company ceasing to carry on business ;
(e) any other event the occurrence of which is expressed
in the instrument creating the floating charge to
have the effect of causing that charge to attach to
the property comprised in it.
328 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(2) Where—
(a) a floating charge has attached to any property of a
company ; and
(b) the company sells or otherwise disposes of any
property to which the charge has attached,
the person to whom the property is sold or otherwise disposed
of, shall be liable to account to the person entitled to the
benefit of the floating charge for the value of the property,
if—
(c) a receiver had been appointed in respect of the
property and that person had notice of the
appointment of the receiver ; or
(d) that person knew or ought by reason of his
relationship with the company to have known
that—
(i) the floating charge had attached to that
property ;
(ii) the sale or disposal was a breach of the
instrument creating the floating charge ; or
(iii) the sale or disposal did not occur in the normal
course of the company’s business.
(3) Nothing in subsection (2) shall apply to a sale of
property—
(a) by or under the authority of a receiver appointed in
respect of the property, by the person entitled to the
benefit of the floating charge ;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 329
(b) pursuant to a floating charge or other security in
respect of the property which ranks prior to the
floating charge, to the benefit of which the person
making the claim is entitled ; or
(c) by the court.
(4) A person who is liable to account to the holder of a
floating charge for the value of property disposed of by the
company, shall be given credit for the value of any
consideration provided to the company for that property
which has become available to the holder of the floating
charge, in substitution for that property.
(5) A person shall be deemed to have received notice of
the appointment of receiver for the purposes of subsection
(2), if—
(a) the person knows or ought by reason of his
relationship with the company to know, that a
receiver has been appointed ; or
(b) public notice of the appointment of the receiver has
been given is accordance with paragraph (b) of
subsection (1) of section 440.
(6) For the avoidance of doubt, where a floating charge
has become a fixed charge under this section, the grantee
may without prejudice to any right he may have to appoint a
receiver under Part XV, exercise any other remedy which is
available to the holder of a fixed charge under the Mortgage
Act (Cap. 89) or under any other written law.
330 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
PART XV
RECEIVERS AND MANAGERS
Interpretation. 434. (1) In this Part of this Act, unless the context
otherwise requires—
“creditor” includes a person to whom the grantor owes
a debt or is under a liability, whether present or
future, certain or contingent and whether an
ascertained debt or liability or a liability in
damages ;
“grantee” means in relation to an instrument which
creates a floating charge, the person entitled to the
benefit of the instrument ;
“grantor” means the person in respect of whose property
a receiver is or may be appointed ;
“liquidator” means a liquidator appointed under
Part XII ;
“mortgage” includes a charge on property for securing
money or money’s worth ;
“mortgagee” includes a person from time to time
deriving title under the original mortgagee, but
does not include a receiver ;
“preferential claims” means the claims referred to in
the Ninth Schedule (except paragraph 1 of that
Schedule) ;
“property” includes—
(a) movable and immovable property ;
(b) an interest in movable or immovable
property ;
