434 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
THIRD SCHEDULE [Section 35 (1)]
PROVISIONS WHICH DO NOT APPLY TO COMPANIES LIMITED BY GUARANTEE
Part IV (Shares and Debentures)
Sections 93 to 98 (Minority buy-out rights)
Sections 99 to 101 (Interest groups)
Section 123(1)(b) and (c) (Company to maintain share register)
Section 124(1) and (3) (Place of share register)
Sections 198 to 200 (Disclosure of director’s interests in shares)
Section 220 (Duty of directors on serious loss of capital)
Part VIII (Amalgamations)
Sub-paragraphs (b) and (e) to (j) of the Fifth Schedule (Matters to
be included in Annual Return).
FOURTH SCHEDULE [Section 37(1)]
MATTERS TO BE SPECIFIED IN PROSPECTUS AND REPORTS TO BE SET OUT THEREIN
PART 1
MATTERS TO BE SPECIFIED
1. The business which the subscribers or promoters intend that the
company should carry out during the period of five years from
the date of commencement of business by the company.
2. The number of founders or management or deferred shares if
any, and the nature and extent of the interest of the holders in the
property and profits of the company.
3. The number of shares, if any, fixed by the articles as the
qualification of a director, and any provision in the articles as to
the remuneration of the directors.
4. The names, descriptions and addresses of the directors or proposed
directors.
5. Where shares are offered to the public for subscription, particulars
as to—
(a) the minimum amount which in the opinion of the
directors, must be raised by the issue of those shares in
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 435
order to provide the sums, or if any part thereof is to be
defrayed in any other manner, the balance of the sums,
required to be provided in respect of each of the following
matters :—
(i) the purchase price of any property purchased or
to be purchased which is to be defrayed in whole
or in part out of the proceeds of the issue ;
(ii) any preliminary expenses payable by the company
and any commission so payable to any person in
consideration of his agreeing to subscribe for or
of his procuring or agreeing to procure
subscriptions for any shares in the company ;
(iii) the repayment of any moneys borrowed by the
company in respect of any of the aforesaid matters;
(iv) working capital ; and
(b) the amounts to be provided in respect of the matters aforesaid
otherwise than out of the proceeds of the issue, and the
sources out of which those amounts are to be provided.
6. The time of the opening and closing of the subscription lists.
7. The amount payable on application and allotment on each share,
and in the case of second or subsequent offer of shares, the
amount offered for subscription on each provious allotment
made within the two preceding years, the amount actually
allotted, and the amount, if any, paid on the shares so allotted.
8. The number, description and amount of any shares in, or
debentures of the company which any person has or is entitled
to be given an option to subscribe for, together with the following
particulars of the option, that is to say—
(a) the period during which it is exercisable ;
(b) the price to be paid for shares or debentures subscribed
for under it ;
(c) the consideration (if any) given or to be given for it or
for the right to it ;
(d) the names and addresses of the persons to whom it or the
right to it was given or if given to existing shareholders
or debenture-holders as such, the relevant shares or
debentures.
436 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
9. The number and amount of shares and debentures which within
the two preceding years have been issued or agreed to be issued,
as fully or partly paid up for a consideration other than cash and
the consideration for which those shates or debentures, have
been issued or are proposed or intended to be issued.
10. (1) As respects any property to which this paragraph applies–
(a) the names and addresses of the vendors ;
(b) the amount payable in cash, shares or debentures to the
vendor and where there is more than one separate vendor
or the company is a sub-purchaser, the amount so
payable to each vendor ;
(c) short particulars of any transaction relating to the
property completed within the two preceding years in
which any vendor of the property to the company or
any person who is or was at the time of the transaction,
a promoter or a director or proposed director of the
company had any interest, direct or indirect.
(2) The property to which this paragraph applies is property
purchased or acquired by the company or proposed so to
be purchased or acquired, which is to be paid for wholly or
partly out of the proceeds of the issue offered for
subscription by the prospectus or the purchase or acquisition
of which has not been completed at the date of the issue of
the prospectus, other than property—
(a) the contract for the purchase or acquisition whereof
was entered into in the ordinary course of the
company’s business, the contract not being made in
contemplation of the issue nor the issue in consequence
of the contract ; or
(b) as respects which the amount of the purchase money is
not material.
11. The amount if any, paid or payable as purchase money in cash,
shares or debentures for any property to which the last foregoing
paragraph applies, specifying the amount if any, payable for
goodwill.
12. The amount, if any paid within the two preceding years or
payable as commission (but not including commission to sub-
underwriters) for subscribing or agreeing to subscribe or
procuring or agreeing to procure subscriptions, for any shares
in or debentures of the company, or the rate of any such
commission.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 437
13. The amount or estimated amount of preliminary expenses and
the persons by whom any of those expenses have been paid or
are payable and the amount or estimated amount of the expenses
of the issue and the persons by whom any of those expenses
have been paid or are payable.
14. Any amount or benefit paid or given within the two preceding
years or intended to be paid or given to any promoter and the
consideration for the payment or the giving of the benefit.
15. The dates or parties to and general nature of every material
contract, not being a contract entered into in the ordinary course
of the business carried on or intended to be carried on by the
company or a contract entered into more than two years before
the date of issue of the prospectus.
16. The names and addresses of the auditors, if any, of the company.
17. Full particulars of the nature and extent of the interest, if any, of
every director in the promotion of or in the property proposed
to be acquired by the company, or where the interest of such a
director consists in being a partner in a firm, the nature and
extent of the interest of the firm, with a statement of all sums
paid or agreed to be paid to him or to the firm, in cash or shares
or otherwise by any person, either to induce him to become or
to qualify him as a director or otherwise for service rendered by
him or by the firm in connection with the promotion or formation
of the company.
18. Where the prospectus invites the public to subscribe for shares
in the company and the share capital of the company is divided
into different classes of shares, the right of voting at meetings of
the company conferred by and the other rights and obligations
attached to the several classes of shares, respectively.
19. In the case of a company which has been carrying on business or
a business which has been carried on for less than three years, the
length of time during which the business of the company or the
business to be acquired, as the case may be, has been carried on.
PART II
REPORT TO BE SET OUT
20. (1) A report by the auditors of the company with respect to—
(a) profits and losses and assets and liabilities in accordance
with the provisions of sub-paragraph (2) or sub-
paragraph (3) of this paragraph, as the case requires ;
and
438 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(b) the rates of the dividends, if any, paid by the company
in respect of each class of shares in the company in
respect of each of the five financial years immediately
preceding the issue of the prospectus, giving particulars
of each such class of shares on which such dividends
have been paid, and particulars of the cases in which no
dividends have been paid in respect of any class of
shares, in respect of any of those years,
and, if no accounts have been made up in respect of any part of
the period of five years ending on the date three months before
the issue of the prospectus, containing a statement of that fact.
(2) Where the company has no subsidiaries, the report shall—
(a) so far as regards profits and losses, deal with the profits
or losses of the company in respect of each of the five
financial years immediately preceding the issue of the
prospectus ; and
(b) so far as regards assets and liabilities, deal with the
assets and liabilities of the company as at the last date to
which the accounts of the company were made up.
(3) Where the company has subsidiaries, the report shall—
(a) so far as regards profits and losses, deal separately with
the company’s profit or losses as provided by the
provisions of sub-paragraph (2) of this paragraph and
in addition, deal either—
(i) as a whole with the combined profits and losses of
its subsidiaries, so far as they concern members of
the company ; or
(ii) individually with the profits or losses of each
subsidiary, so far as they concern members of the
company,
or, instead of dealing separately with the company’s profits or
losses, deal as a whole with the profits or losses of the company
and so far as they concern members of the company with the
combined profits or losses of its subsidiaries ; and
(b) so far as regards assets and liabilities, deal separately
with the company’s assets and liabilities as provided by
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 439
the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) above, and in
addition deal either—
(i) as a whole with the combined assest and liabilities
of its subsidiaries with or without the company’s
assets and liabilities ; or
(ii) individually with the assets and liabilites of each
subsidiary,
and shall indicate as respects the assets and liabilities of the
subsidiaries, the allowances to be made for persons other than
members of the company.
21. Where the proceeds or any part of the proceeds of the issue of
the shares or debentures are or is to be applied directly or indirectly
in the purchase of any business, a report made by accountants
(who shall be named in the prospectus) upon—
(a) the profits or losses of the business in respect of each of
the five financial years immediately preceding the issue
of the prospectus ; and
(b) the assets and liabilities of the business at the last date to
which the accounts of the business were made up.
22. (1) Where—
(a) the proceeds or any part of the proceeds of the issue of
the shares or debentrures are or is to be applied directly
or indirectly in any manner resulting in the acquisition
by the company of shares in any other body corporate;
and
(b) by reason of that acquisition or anything to be done in
consequence thereof or in connection therewith, that
body corporate will become a subsidiary of the
company,
a report made by accountants (who shall be named in the
prospectus) upon—
(i) the profits and losses of the other body corporate
in respect of each of the five financial years
immediately preceding the date of issue of the
prospectus ; and
440 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(ii) the assets and liabilities of the other body corporate
at the last date to which the accounts of the body
corporate were made up.
(2) The report referred to in sub-paragraph (i) shall—
(a) indicate how the profits or losses of the other body
corporate dealt with in the report would in respect of
the shares to be acquired, have concerned members of
the company and what allowance would have fallen to
be made in relation to assets and liabilities so dealt with
for holders of other shares, if the company had at all
material times held the shares to be acquired ; and
(b) where the other body corporate has subsidaries deal
with the profits or losses and the assets and liabilities of
the body corporate and its subsidiaries in the manner
provided by sub-paragraph (3) of paragraph 20 in
relation to the company and its subsidiaries.
PART III
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO PARAGRAPHS 1 TO 22
23. The provisions of paragraphs 3, 4, 13 (so far as it relates to
preliminary expenses) and 17 shall not apply in the case of a
prospectus issued more than two years after the date on which
the company is entitled to commence business.
24. Every person shall for the purpose of this Schedule, be deemed
to be a vendor who has entered into any contract absolute or
conditional for the sale or purchase or for any option of purchase,
of any property to be acquired by the company in any case
where—
(a) the purchase money is not fully paid at the date of the
issue of the prospectus ;
(b) the purchase money is to be paid or satisfied wholly or in
part out of the proceeds of the issue offered for
subscription by the prospectus ;
(c) the contract depends for its validity or fulfillment on the
result of that issue.
25. Where any property to be acquired by the company is to be
taken on lease, this Schedule shall have effect as if the expression
“vendor” included the lessor, the expression “purchase money”
included the consideration for the lease, and the expression
“sub-purchaser” included a sub-lessee.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 441
26. Any references in paragraph 8 to subscribing for shares or
debentures shall include acquiring them from a person to whom
they have been allotted or agreed to be allotted with a view to his
offering them for sale.
27. For the purposes of paragraph 10 where the vendors or any of
them are a firm, the members of the firm shall not be treated as
separate vendors.
28. Where in the case of a company which has been carrying on
business or of a business which has been carried on for less than
five years, the accounts of the company or business have only
been made up in respect of four years, three years, two years or
one year, provisions of paragraphs 20, 21 and 22 shall have
effect as if reference to four years, three years, two years or one
year, as the case may be, were substituted for references to five
years.
29. The expression “financial year” in paragraphs 20, 21 and 22
means the year in respect of which the accounts of the company
or of the business, as the case may be, are made up, and where
by reason of any alteration of the date on which the financial
year of the company or business terminates, the accounts of the
company or business have been made up for a period greater or
less than a year, that greater or lesser period shall for the purpose
of those paragraphs be deemed to be a financial year.
30. Any report required by paragraphs 20, 21 and 22 shall either
indicate by way of a note, any adjustments as respect the figures
of any profits or losses or assets and liabilities dealt with by the
report which appear to the person making the report necessary,
or shall make those adjustments and indicate that adjustments
have been made.
31. Any report by accountants required by paragraphs 20, 21 and
22 shall be made by accountants qualified under this Act for
appointment as auditors of a company, and shall not be made by
any accountant who is an officer or servant or a partner of or in
the employment of an officer or servant of the company or of
the company’s subsidiary or holding company or of a subsidiary
of the company’s holding company, and for the purpose of this
paragraph the expression “officer” shall include a proposed
director, but not an auditor.
442 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
FIFTH SCHEDULE [Section 131]
MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED IN ANNUAL RETURN
The following matters shall be included in the annual return of a
company, other than any matters which are specified in regulations
made under this Act, as matters which all companies or any class of
companies may omit from their annual return :—
(a) a list of all persons who, on the fourteenth day from the date
of the first or only ordinary general meering in the year, are
shareholders of the company, and all persons who have
ceased to be shareholders since the date of the last return or
in the case of the first return, of the incorporation of the
company ;
(b) the names and addresses of all the past and present
shareholders mentioned in the return, and the number of
shares held by each of the existing shareholders at the date of
the retuen, specifying shares transferred since the date of the
last return or in the case of the first return, of the incorporation
of the company by persons who are still shareholders and
have ceased to be shareholders respectively, and the dates of
registration of the transfers. If the names are not arranged in
alphabetical order, the return shall have annexed to it an
index sufficient to enable the name of any person in such list
to be readily found ;
(c) the date of incorporation and any change of name of the
company ;
(d) the address of the registered office of the company ;
(e) the total number of shares issued by the company ;
(f) the stated capital of the company ;
(g) the total number of shares forfeited ;
(h) the total amount of shares for which share warrants are
outstanding at the date of the return ;
(i) the total amount of share warrants issued and surrendered
respectively since the date of the last return ;
(j) the number of shares comprised in each share warrant ;
