Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 393
516. (1) A fine may be imposed by a court for any Imposition and
offence under this Act, notwithstanding that the fine exceeds application of
the amount of the fine which the court may impose in the fines.
exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction.
(2) The court imposing any fine under this Act, may direct
that the whole or any part of it shall be applied in or towards
payment of the costs of the proceedings or in or towards
rewarding the persons on whose information or at whose suit
the fine is recovered.
517. Nothing in this Act relating to the institution of Savings as to
criminal proceedings by the Attorney-General, shall be taken private
prosecutors.
to preclude any person from instituting or carrying on any
such proceedings.
518. Where proceedings are instituted under this Act Savings for
against any person by the Attorney-General, nothing in this privileged
communications.
Act shall be taken to require any person who has acted as
attorney-at-law for the accused, to disclose any privileged
communication made to him in that capacity.
PART XXII
MISCELLANEOUS
PROHIBITION OF PARTNERSHIP WITH MORE THAN TWENTY MEMBERS
519. (1) No company, association or partnership consisting Prohibition of
of more than twenty persons shall be formed for the purpose partnership with
of carrying on any business that has for its object the more than
twenty
acquisition of gain by the company, association or
members.
partnership, or by its individual members, unless it is
registered as a company under this Act or under some other
enactment.
(2) No company, association or partnership consisting of
more than twenty persons, which is formed outside Sri Lanka,
shall carry on in Sri Lanka any business that has for its object
394 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
the acquisition of gain by the company, association or
partnership or by its individual members, unless—
(a) it is duly incorporated as a company outside Sri
Lanka ; and
(b) has an established place of business within Sri
Lanka.
(3) Nothing in subsection (1) or (2) shall apply to—
(a) a partnership formed for the purpose of carrying on
practice as attorneys-at-law, consisting of persons
each of whom is an attorney-at-law ;
(b) a partnership formed for the purpose of carrying on
practice as accountants, consisting of persons each
of whom is a chartered accountant ;
(c) a pertnership formed for the purpose of carrying on
practice as members of a licensed stock exchange,
consisting of persons each of whom is a member of
that licensed stock exchange ;
(d) a partnership formed for any purpose that may be
prescribed, consisting of such persons as may be
prescribed.
(4) Where any company, association or partnership
consisting of more than twenty persons is formed in
contravention of the provisions of subsection (1) or carries
on any business in contravention of the provisions of
subsection (2), each of those persons—
(a) shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand
rupees;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 395
(b) shall, without prejudice to paragraph (a), be
severally liable for the payment of the whole of the
debts of the company, association or partnership of
which he is or was a member, may be sued
accordingly without joining in the suit any other
member of the company, association or partnership.
APPLICATION AND REFERENCE TO COURT
520. (1) Every application or reference to court under Procedure.
the provisions of this Act shall, unless otherwise expressly
provided or unless the court otherwise directs, be by way of
petition and affidavit, and every person against whom such
application or reference is made, shall be named a respondent
in the petition and be entitled to be given notice of the same
and to object to such application or reference.
(2) Every application or reference made to the court in
the course of any proceeding under this Act or incidental
thereto, shall be made by motion in writing.
(3) The Registrar shall be entitled to be heard or
represented in any application or reference made to the court
under this Act at any stage of such application or reference.
(4) In all proceedings before court by way of application
or reference under this Act, no order for costs shall be made
against the Registrar.
521. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) Grant of
and (3), pending the making of a final order in any application isnterim relief.
or reference to court made under this Act, the court may on
the application of a party to the proceedings, make such
interim order, including a restraining order, as it thinks fit.
Such order may at the discretion of the court, be made ex-
parte or after notice to the respondent. The respondent may
make an application for an order of revocation or variation of
the ex-parte order, with notice to the petitioner.
396 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(2) The court shall not grant a restraining order or any
other form of interim order under this Act on the application
of a shareholder, former shareholder or a director, unless the
applicant has first lodged with the court an undertaking in
writing that if the order sought is granted, and the company
or any other person suffers loss or damage which the court
considers as just and equitable for the applicant to bear, the
applicant will indemnify the company or other person against
that loss or damage.
(3) The court shall, before or at the time of granting a
restraining order or any other form of interim order, fix the
amount of security which the applicant shall provide for the
undertaking given under subsection (2). Security may be
provided by depositing funds with the court or by providing
a bank guarantee or in such other manner as the court may
consider sufficient.
(4) The court may from time to time, on the application
of the company or any other person who may suffer loss or
damage as a consequence of the making or continuation in
force of an interim order, increase the amount of security to
be provided by the applicant for the undertaking given under
subsection (2). Where an order for an increase in the amount
of security to be provided is made, it shall be a condition of
the continuation of the interim order, that the increased
security be provided within a period specified by the court.
(5) The court may make such orders as it think just and
equitable—
(a) by way of enforcement of an undertaking given
under subsection (2) ;
(b) for the payment out to any person of funds
deposited as security under subsection (3) ;
(c) for the investment in an interest bearing bank
account, of any funds deposited as security under
subsection (3).
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 397
522. Nothing in this Act shall require disclosure by any Savings for
person to the Registrar or to an inspector appointed by the attorney-at-law
and bankers.
Registrar—
(a) of any information which he would in proceedings
in a court be entitled to refuse to disclose on grounds
of legal professional privilege, except if he is an
attorney-at-law, the name and address of his client;
or
(b) unless the court orders otherwise, by a company’s
bankers, of any information as to the affairs of any
of their customers other than the company.
523. A document may be served on a company— Service of
documents on
(a) by leaving it at or sending it by post to the registered company.
office of the company ;
(b) by delivering it or sending it by post to any director,
secretary, manager or other officer of the company;
or
(c) if for any reason it cannot be served as aforesaid, on
such director, secretary, manager or other officer, by
delivering it or sending it by post or by serving it in
such manner as may be ordered by the court.
524. Any document purporting to be made or furnished Documents to
for the purposes of this Act by or on behalf of a company or be received in
by any person, shall for all purposes be, until the contrary is evidence.
proved, deemed to have been made or furnished by such
company or person, as the case may be. Any person signing
any such document shall be deemed to be cognizant all
matters therein.
525. Where a limited company is plaintiff in any action Costs in action
or other legal proceeding, any judge having jurisdiction in by certain
limited
the matter may, where it appears by credible testimony that
companies.
there is reason to believe that the company will be unable to
398 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
pay the costs of the defendant if successful in his defence,
require sufficient security to be given for those costs, and
may stay all proceedings until the security is given.
Power of court 526. (1) Where in any proceeding for negligence,
to grant relief in default, breach of duty, or breach of trust against an officer of
certain cases.
a company or a person employed by a company as auditor
(whether he is or not an officer of the company), it appears to
the court hearing the case that the officer or person is or may
be liable in respect of the negligence, default, breach of duty
or breach of trust, but that he has acted honestly and
reasonably, and that having regard to all the circumstances
of the case, including those connected with his appointment,
he ought fairly to be excused for the negligence, default,
breach of duty or breach of trust, that court may relieve him,
either wholly or partly, from his liability on such terms as the
court may think fit.
(2) Where any such officer or person referred to in
subsection (1) has reason to apprehend that, any claim will or
might be made against him in respect of any negligence,
default, breach of duty or breach of trust, he may apply to the
court for relief, and the court on any such application shall
have the same power to relieve him as under this section it
would have had, if it had been a court before which
proceedings against that person for negligence, default,
breach of duty or breach of trust has been brought.
Regulations. 527. (1) The Minister may make regulations for or in
respect of all matters which are stated or required by this Act
to be prescribed or for which regulations are required or
authorised by this Act to be made.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 399
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previously
done thereunder. Notification of the date on which any
regulation is so deemed to be rescinded, shall be published
in the Gazette.
528. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala text to
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail in case
of inconsistency.
prevail.
529. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise Interpretation.
requires—
“accounting period” means in relation to any body
corporate, the period in respect of which the financial
statements of such body corporate are made up,
whether the said period is a year or not;
“agent” does not include any person’s attorney-at-law
acting as such ;
“annual return” means the return required to be made by
a company under section 131;
“articles” means articles of association of a company as
originally framed or as altered by special resolution,
including so far as they apply to the company, the
regulations contained in Part C of the Schedule to
the Joint Stock Companies Ordinance, 1861 or in
Table B in the Schedule to the Joint Stock Banking
Ordinance, 1897 or in Table A in the First Schedule
to the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 145) or in Table
A in the First Schedule to the Companies Act, No.
17 of 1982, or the model articles ;
400 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
“balance sheet date” means the close of the 31st day of
March or of such other date as the Board of the
company has adopted as the company’s balance
sheet date and the notification of which is given
forthwith to the Registrar ;
“board” and “board of directors” in relation to a company,
means —
(a) directors of the company who number not less
than the required quorum acting together as a
board of directors ; or
(b) if the company has only one director, that
director ;
“book and paper” and “book or paper” includes
accounts, deeds, writings and documents ;
“certified” means certified in such manner as may be
prescribed, or if no manner of certification is
prescribed in relation to any document or class of
documents, in such manner as the Registrar may
require ;
“class” means a class of shares having attached to them
identical rights, privileges, limitations and
conditions ;
“company” means a company incorporated under this
Act or an existing company ;
“the court” means a High Court established under Article
154P of the Constitution for a Province, empowered
with civil jurisdiction by Order published in the
Gazette under section 2 of the High Court of the
Provinces (Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of 1996,
within the Province for which such High Court is
established, or where no such High Court vested
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 401
with such civil jurisdiction is established for any
Province, the High Court established for the Western
Province;
“debenture” includes debenture stock, bonds and any
other securities of a company, whether constituting
a charge on the assets of the company or not ;
“director” includes—
(a) a person occupying the position of director of
the company, by whatever name called ;
(b) for the purposes of sections 187, 188, 189,
190, 197, 374 and 377—
(i) a person in accordance with whose
directions or instructions a person referred
to in paragraph (a) may be required or is
accustomed to act ;
(ii) a person in accordance with whose
directions or instructions the board of the
company may be required or is
accustomed to act ; and
(iii) a person who exercises or who is entitled
to exercise or who controls or who is
entitled to control the exercise of powers
which, apart from the articles of the
company, would be required to be
exercised by the board ; and
(c) for the purposes of sections 187 to 195 (both
inclusive), 197, 374 and 377, a person to
whom a power or duty of the board has been
directly delegated by the board with that
person’s consent or acquiescence, or who
exercises the power or duty with the consent
or acquiescence of the board.
402 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
The provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) shall not apply to
a person to the extent that the person acts only in a
professional capacity;
“distribution” means—
(a) the direct or indirect transfer of money or property,
other than the shares of a company, to or for the
benefit of a shareholder ; or
(b) the incurring of a debt to or for the benefit of a
shareholder,
in relation to a share or shares held by that shareholder,
whether by means of a payment of a dividend, a
redemption or other acquisition of the share or shares, a
distribution of indebtedness or otherwise ;
“dividend” shall have the same meaning as given in
section 60 ;
“document” means a document in any form,
including—
(a) any writing on material ;
(b) information recorded or stored by means of a
tape recorder, computer, or other device and
material subsequently derived from
information so recorded or stored ;
(c) a book, graph, or drawing ; and
(d) a photograph, film negative, tape or other
device in which one or more visual images
are embodied so as to be capable (with or
without the aid of equipment) of being
reproduced ;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 403
“employees’ share scheme”, in relation to a company,
means a scheme for encouraging or facilitating
the holding of shares in the company by or for the
benefit of—
(a) the bona fide employees or former employees
of the company or any related company ; or
(b) the wives, husbands, widows, widowers or
children or step-children of such employees
or former employees ;
“existing company” means, a company formed and
registered under the Joint Stock Companies
Ordinance, 1861, or the Joint Stock Banking
Ordinance, 1897, the Companies Ordinance (Cap.
145), or the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 ;
“financial statements” means—
(a) a balance sheet for the company as at the
balance sheet date ; and
(b) in the case of—
(i) a company trading for profit, a profit and
loss statement for the company in relation
to the accounting period ending at the
balance sheet date ; and
(ii) a company not trading for profit, an
income and expenditure statement for the
company in relation to the accounting
period ending at the balance sheet date,
together with any notes or documents giving
information relating to the balance sheet or
statement ;
404 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
“Fund” means, the Fund established under section 479;
“group financial statements” means—
(a) a consolidated balance sheet for the group as
at that balance sheet date ;
(b) where a member of the group trades for profit,
a consolidated profit and loss statement for
the group in relation to the accounting period
ending at that balance sheet date ; and
(c) where no member of the group trades for profit,
a consolidated income and expenditure
statement for the group, in relation to the
accounting period ending at that balance sheet
date,
together with any notes or documents giving
information relating to the balance sheet or
statement;
“holding company”, a company shall beodeemed to
be another company’s holding company, if and
only if that other company is its subsidiary. For
the purpose of this definition “company” includes
any body corporate;
“interest group” in relation to any action or proposal
affecting rights attached to shares, means a group
of shareholders—
(a) whose affected rights are identical; and
(b) whose rights are affected by the action or
proposal in the same way;
“legal representative” means, an executor or
administrator or in the case of an estate not
administrable in law, the next-of -kin who have
adiated the inheritance;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 405
“listed company” means, a company, any shares or
securities of which are quoted on a licensed stock
exchange;
“licensed commercial bank” means, a company or
institution issued with a licence under the Banking
Act, No. 30 of 1988, to carry on business as a
licensed commercial bank;
“manager” includes, any person occupying the position
of manger by whatever name called;
“minimum subscription” means, the amount stated in
a prospectus as the minimum amount, which in
the opinion of the directors must be raised by the
issue of share capital and reckoned exclusively of
any amount payable otherwise than in cash;
“officer” in relation to a body corporate, includes a
director, manager or secretary;
“ordinary resolution” means, a resolution that is
approved by a simple majority of the votes of those
shareholders entitled to vote and voting on the
question;
“overseas company” shall have the same meaning as
given in section 488;
“prescribed” means, prescribed by regulation;
“prospectus” means, any prospectus, notice, circular,
advertisement, or other invitation, offering to the
public for subscription to or purchase of any shares
or debentures of a company, and includes any such
notice, circular, advertisement, or other invitation,
notwithstanding that it may contain on the face
thereof, that it is not a prospectus or offer of shares
to the public;
406 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
“receiver” means, a receiver of the whole or a part of the
property and undertaking of a company, appointed
under Part XV;
“redeemable” shall have the same meaning as given in
section 66;
“Register” means, the Register required to be kept under
section 473;
“Registrar” means, the Registrar-General of Companies
or other officer performing under this Act, the duty
of registration of companies;
“resolution altering articles” shall have the same meaning
as given in section 15;
“share” means, a share issued by a company;
“share register” means, the register required to be kept
under section 123;
“shareholder” shall have the same meaning as given in
section 86;
“stated capital” shall have the same meaning as given in
section 58;
“subsidiary”, a company shall be deemed to be a
subsidiary of another, if and only if—
(a) that other company either—
(i) controls the composition of its board of
directors ;
(ii) is in a position to exercise or control the
exercise of more than half the maximum
number of votes that can be exercised at
a meeting of the company;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 407
(iii) hold more than half of the issued shares
of the company, other than shares that
carry no right to participate beyond a
specified amount in a distribution of
profits or capital;
(iv) is entitled to receive more than half of
every dividend paid on shares issued by
the company, other than shares that carry
no right to participate beyond a specified
amount in a distribution of profits or
capital; or
(b) the first-mentioned company is a subsidiary
of any company which is that other company’s
subsidiary.
For the purpose of this definition, the composition of a
company’s board of directors shall be deemed to be controlled
by another company if, and only if, that other company by
the exercise of any power exercisable by it without the
consent or concurrence of any other person, can appoint or
remove all or a majority of the directors, and that other
company shall be deemed to have power to appoint a director,
if—
(a) a person cannot be appointed as a director without
the exercise in his favour by that other company, of
a power to so appoint ; or
(b) a person’s appointment as a director follows
necessarily from his appointment as a director of
that other company.
In determining whether one company is a subsidiary of
another—
(a) any shares held or power exercisable by a company
in a fiduciary capacity shall be treated as not held or
exercisable by it;
408 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(b) subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d),
any shares held or power exercisable—
(i) by any person as a nominee for that other
(except where that other is concerned only in
a fiduciary capacity); or
(ii) by or by a nominee for a subsidiary of that
other, not being a subsidiary which is
concerned only in a fiduciary capacity,
shall be treated as held or exercisable by that other;
(c) any shares held or power exercisable by any person
by virtue of the provisions of any debentures of the
first-mentioned company, or of a trust deed for
securing any issue of such debentures, shall be
disregarded;
(d) any shares held or power exercisable by or by a
nominee for that other or its subsidiary (not being
held or exercisable as referred to in paragraph (c)),
shall be treated as not held or exercisable by that
other, if the ordinary business of that other or its
subsidiary, as the case may be, includes the lending
of money, and the shares are held or the power is
exercisable by way of security only, for the purposes
of a transaction entered into in the ordinary course
of that business.
For the purpose of this definition “company” includes a
body corporate; and
“working day” means a day other than Saturday,
Sunday or a public holiday.
(2) For the purposes of this Act, —
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 409
(a) a company is related to another company, if—
(i) that company is the subsidiary or holding
company of the other company;
(ii) the holding company of that company is also
a holding company of the other company; or
(iii) that company is related to a company which
is related to the other company ;
(b) where any section of this Act provides that an officer
of a company who is in default shall be liable to a
penalty, the expression “officer who is in default”
means any director, manager, secretary or other
officer of the company, who knowingly and wilfully
authorizes or permits the default, refusal or
contravention referred to in that section;
(c) (i) one or more groups may exist in relation to
any action or proposal; and
(ii) if—
(A) action is taken in relation to some
holders of shares in a class and not
others; or
(B) a proposal expressly distinguishes
between some holders of shares in a
class and other holders of shares of that
class,
holders of shares in the same class, may fall
into two or more interest groups.
(3) Any reference in this Act—
(a) (i) to the shareholders of a company includes,
in relation to a company which has only one
shareholder, a reference to that shareholder;
410 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(ii) to the directors of a company includes, in
relation to a company which has only one
director, a reference to that director ;
(b) to a body corporate or to a corporation, shall be
construed as not including a corporation sole but as
including a company incorporated outside Sri
Lanka;
(c) unless the context otherwise requires, to a person
by whom, or in whose interests a receiver was
appointed, includes a reference to a person to whom
the rights and interests under any deed or agreement
by or under which the receiver was appointed, have
been transferred or assigned.
(4) Where public notice of any matter is required to be
given under this Act, that notice shall be given by publishing
a notice of that matter—
(a) in at least one issue of the Gazette; and
(b) in at least one issue of a daily newspaper in the
Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, circulating
in the area in which—
(i) the company’s place of business;
(ii) if the company has more than one place of
business, the company’s principal place of
business; or
(iii) if the company has no place of business or
the location of neither its principal place of
business nor any other place of business is
known to the person required to give the
notice, the company’s registered office,
is situated.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 411
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS AND SAVINGS
530. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions contained Transitional
in sections 5 and 10 of the Interpretation Ordinance— provisions.
(a) nothing in the repeal of any former written law
relating to companies shall affect any order, rule,
regulation, scale of fees, appointment, conveyance,
mortgage, deed or agreement made, resolution passed,
direction given, proceeding taken, instrument issued
or thing done under any former written law relating
to companies, but any such order, rule, regulation,
scale of fees, appointment, conveyance, mortgage,
deed or agreement, resolution, direction, proceeding,
instrument or thing shall, if in force on the appointed
date, continue to be in force, and so far as it could
have been made, passed, given, taken, issued or done
under this Act, shall have effect as if made, passed,
given, taken, issued, or done under the provisions of
this Act;
(b) any document referring to a provision in any former
written law relating to companies, shall be construed
as referring to the corresponding provision
contained in this Act;
(c) any person appointed to any office under or by
virtue of any former written law relating to
companies, shall be deemed to have been appointed
to that office under or by virtue of the provisions of
this Act;
(d) any Register kept under any former written law
relating to companies, shall be deemed part of the
Register to be kept under the corresponding
provisions of this Act;
(e) all funds and accounts constituted under the
provisions of this Act, shall be deemed to be in
412 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
continuation of the corresponding funds and
accounts constituted under the former written law
relating to companies.
(2) In this section the expression “former written law
relating to companies” means any written law repealed by
the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 145) or the Companies Act,
No. 17 of 1982 or this Act.
(3) All actions, proceedings or matters, other than those
referred to in section 532, and pending in a District Court on
the day preceding the date on which this Act came into
operation, shall stand removed to the court as defined in this
Act and such court shall have jurisdiction to take cognizance
of, hear and determine, or continue and complete, the same:
Provided that any such action, proceeding or matter, in
which the adducing of evidence has commenced in the District
Court on the day preceding the date on which this Act came
into operation, shall be heard and determined by the said
District Court.
Savings. 531. Nothing in this Act shall affect—
(a) the incorporation of any company registered under
any written law repealed by the Companies
Ordinance (Cap. 145), Companies Act, No. 17 of
1982 or this Act;
(b) Part C of the Schedule to the Joint Stock Companies
Ordinance, 1861, or any part thereof, so far as the
same applies to any company in existence on the
appointed date;
(c) Table B in the Schedule to the Joint Stock Banking
Ordinance, 1897, or any part thereof, so far as the
same applies to any company in existence on the
appointed date;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 413
(d) Tables A and C in the First Schedule to the
Companies Ordinance (Cap. 145) or any part thereof,
so far as the same applies to any company in
existence on the appointed date;
(e) Table A and C in the First Schedule to the Companies
Act, No. 17 of 1982 or any part thereof, so far as the
same applies to any company in existence on the
appointed date.
532. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), the Savings of
provisions of this Act with respect to winding up shall not pending
proceedings for
apply to any company of which the winding up has
winding up.
commenced before the appointed date. Every such company
shall be wound up in the same manner and with the same
incidents, as if this Act had not been enacted, and for the
purposes of the winding up, the written law under which the
winding up commenced shall be deemed to remain in full
force.
(2) Where any company is being wound up in accordance
with subsection (1), the court may, on application made by
the Registrar or by any creditor of the company, and where
the court is of opinion that it is expedient to do so in the
circumstances of the case, make order that any specified
provision of this Act with respect to liquidation shall apply
to the winding up of that company, and may give such
incidental or supplemental direction as may appear to the
court to be necessary for the purposes of the application of
such provision. Where the court makes any such order, any
provision of this Act specified in the order shall, subject to
any such directions, apply accordingly.
414 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
PART XXIII
REPEALS AND AMENDMENTS
Repeals. 533. (1) The Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 is hereby
repealed.
(2) The Companies (Special Provisions) Law, No. 19 of
1974 and the Foreign Companies (Special Provisions) Law,
No. 9 of 1975 are hereby repealed.
Amendment of 534. The First Schedule to the High Court of the
the First Provinces (Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of 1996 is hereby
Schedule of Act,
amended by the substitution for item (2) of that Schedule, of
No. 10 of 1996.
the following item :—
“(2) All application and proceedings under the
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007”.
FIRST SCHEDULE [Section 14]
MODEL ARTICLES
A. SHARES
1. Issue of shares
(1) Subject to articles 1 (2) and 1 (3), of these articles, the board
may issue such shares to such persons as it thinks fit in accordance with
section 51 of this Act. Where the shares confer rights other than those
specified in subsection (2) of section 49 of this Act, or impose any
obligation on the holder, the board must approve terms of issue which
set out the rights and obligations attached to the shares as required by
subsection (2) of section 51.
(2) Before it issues shares, the board must decide the consideration
for which the shares will be issued. The consideration must be fair and
reasonable to the company and to all existing shareholders.
(3) Where the company issues shares which rank equally with or
prior to existing shares, those shares must be offered to the holders of
the existing shares in a manner which would, if accepted, maintain the
relative voting and distribution rights of those shareholders. The offer
must remain open for acceptance for a reasonable time.
