Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 391
PART XXI
OFFENCES
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENCES
511. Where in any return, report, certificate, balance
Penalty for false
sheet or other document, required by or for the purposes of statement.
this Act, any person wilfully makes a statement which is false
in any material particular knowing it to be false, shall be
guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding one million rupees or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding five years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
512. (1) Any person who, with intent to defraud or Penalty for
deceive a person— falsification of
records.
(a) destroys, parts with, mutilates, alters or falsifies, or
is a party to the destruction, mutilation, alteration
or falsification of any register, accounting records,
book, paper or other document belonging or relating
to a company ; or
(b) makes or is a party to the making of a false entry in
any register, accounting records, book, paper or other
document belonging or relating to a company,
shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding one million rupees or to a term of
imprisonment not exceeding five years or to both such fine
and imprisonment.
513. Where any person or persons or trade carry on Penalty for
business under any name or title of which “Limited” or any improper use of
contraction or imitation of that word is the last word, that word “Limited”.
person or those persons shall, unless duly incorporated with
limited liability, be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
392 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO OFFENCES
Compounding 514. (1) Where any company has made default in
of certain complying with any provision of this Act requiring it to file
offences.
with or deliver or send to the Registrar any account, document
or return or to give notice to him of any matter, and has by
reason of such default committed an offence under this Act,
the Registrar may, if he thinks fit, instead of instituting
proceedings in court or where such proceedings have already
been instituted, instead of continuing such proceedings
against the company or any officer of the company in respect
of such offence, accept from the company or the officer, such
sum of money as the Registrar may think proper in
composition of the offence. Any sum so accepted shall be
credited to the Fund estabilshed under this Act.
(2) Where the Registrar has accepted any sum of money
under subsection (1) in composition of any offence,
proceedings shall not be taken against the company or any
officer of the company in respect of that offence or if already
taken, shall not be continued.
(3) Where any sum of money payable in composition of
an offence under the provisions of subsection (1) remains
unpaid for a period of one month from the date fixed for its
payment by the Registrar, or such extended time as the
Registrar may allow, the Registrar may report the default in
payment to a Magistrate. The amount unpaid shall be
recovered from the company or any officer of the company in
respect of the default, in the same manner as if it were a fine
imposed by the court, and the court shall direct that the amount
in dafault be credited to the Fund.
Offences 515. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other
summarily law to the contrary, all offences under this Act may be tried
triable.
summarily by a Magistrate.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 393
516. (1) A fine may be imposed by a court for any Imposition and
offence under this Act, notwithstanding that the fine exceeds application of
the amount of the fine which the court may impose in the fines.
exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction.
(2) The court imposing any fine under this Act, may direct
that the whole or any part of it shall be applied in or towards
payment of the costs of the proceedings or in or towards
rewarding the persons on whose information or at whose suit
the fine is recovered.
517. Nothing in this Act relating to the institution of Savings as to
criminal proceedings by the Attorney-General, shall be taken private
prosecutors.
to preclude any person from instituting or carrying on any
such proceedings.
518. Where proceedings are instituted under this Act Savings for
against any person by the Attorney-General, nothing in this privileged
communications.
Act shall be taken to require any person who has acted as
attorney-at-law for the accused, to disclose any privileged
communication made to him in that capacity.
PART XXII
MISCELLANEOUS
PROHIBITION OF PARTNERSHIP WITH MORE THAN TWENTY MEMBERS
519. (1) No company, association or partnership consisting Prohibition of
of more than twenty persons shall be formed for the purpose partnership with
of carrying on any business that has for its object the more than
twenty
acquisition of gain by the company, association or
members.
partnership, or by its individual members, unless it is
registered as a company under this Act or under some other
enactment.
(2) No company, association or partnership consisting of
more than twenty persons, which is formed outside Sri Lanka,
shall carry on in Sri Lanka any business that has for its object
