Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 371
thereafter, the Registrar shall, within six months of the
publication of its name in the newspapers, strike off the name
of such company from the register maintained by him under
the provisions of section473.
(4) During the period of six months referred to in
subsection (3), in addition to a director of the company, a
shareholder of such company or a person who has registered
a charge under section 102 or a person who has a money
claim pending before a court or in arbitration proceedings,
shall also be entitled to apply to the Registrar to have a new
number assigned to such company under subsection (2).
(5) Where a company’s name is struck off from the register
under subsection (3), all property and rights whatsoever
vested in or held on trust for the company immediately before
the date on which the name is struck off, (including leasehold
property but not including property held by the company on
trust for any other person), shall vest in and be at the disposal
of the State.
PART XVIII
OVERSEAS COMPANIES
488. For the purposes of this Part of this Act, the Interpretation.
expressions —
“director” in relation to a company, includes any person
in accordance with whose directions or instructions
the directors of the company are accustomed to act;
“overseas company” means any company or body
corporate incorporated outside Sri Lanka, which —
(a) after the appointed date, established a place
of business within Sri Lanka; or
372 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(b) has, before the appointed date, established a
place of business within Sri Lanka and
continues to have an established place of
business within Sri Lanka on the appointed
date;
“place of business” includes a share transfer or share
registration office;
“registered overseas company” means an overseas
company which has delivered or is deemed to have
delivered to the Registrar, the documents and
particulars required under section 489; and
“secretary” includes any person occupying the position
of secretary, by whatever name called.
Documents and 489. (1) Every company incorporated outside Sri Lanka
particulars to be which after the appointed date, establishes a place of business
delivered to within Sri Lanka, shall within one month from the date of
Registrar by
establishment of its place of business, deliver to the Registrar
overseas
for purpose of registration—
companies.
(a) a certified copy of the charter, statues or
memorandum and articles of the company, or other
instrument constituting or defining the constitution
of the company, and where that instrument is not in
an official language of Sri Lanka or in English, a
translation of that instrument in such language as
may be specified by the Registrar;
(b) a list of the directors of the company, containing
such particulars with respect to the directors as are
by this Act required to be contained with respect to
directors, in the register of the directors of a
company;
(c) the names and addresses of one or more persons
resident in Sri Lanka authorized to accept on behalf
of the company, service of documents and of any
notices required to be served on the company;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 373
(d) a statement containing the full address of—
(i) the registered or principal office of the
company; and
(ii) the principal place of business of the
company within Sri Lanka ;
(e) a certified copy, certified of recent date, of any
document effecting or evidencing the incorporation
of the company.
(2) The Registrar may upon sufficient cause being shown
by the defaulting company, extend the period of one month
specified in subsection (1).
(3) Every company incorporated outside Sri Lanka which,
on or before the appointed date, establishes or has established
a place of business within Sri Lanka shall, subject to
subsection (4), within a period of one month from that date,
deliver to the Registrar for registration, the documents and
particulars specified in subsection (1).
(4) Where an overseas company has established a place
of business within Sri Lanka before the appointed date, and
has complied with the requirements of Part XIII of the
Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 in relation to the delivery to
the Registrar, of documents and particulars —
(a) such company shall be deemed to have complied
with subsection (3); and
(b) the Registrar shall enter on the register of overseas
companies, the documents and particulars delivered
under Part XIII of the Companies Act, No. 17 of
1982, and issue a certificate of registration to such
overseas company.
(5) The Registrar may upon receipt of the documents
referred to in subsections (1) or (3), as the case may be, register
the company as a registered overseas company and enter its
374 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
name in the register of overseas companies. A certificate of
registration shall be issued to every registered overseas
company, upon its registration.
(6) The Registrar may extend the period of one month
referred to in subsection (3), if it appears to him expedient to
do so having regard to the circumstances of any particular
case.
(7) A company incorporated outside Sri Lanka shall not
establish a place of business within Sri Lanka or be registered
as an overseas company, where the business being carried on
by that company does not conform to the stipulations made
by or under the Exchange Control Act.
Power of 490. A registered overseas company shall have the same
overseas power to hold lands in Sri Lanka, as if it were a company
companies to incorporated under this Act.
hold lands.
Return to be 491. Where in the case of a registered overseas company,
delivered to any alteration is made in—
Registrar where
documents &c.
(a) the charter, statutes, or memorandum and articles of
altered.
the company or any other instrument constituting
or defining the constitution of the company;
(b) the directors of the company or the particulars
contained in the list of the directors;
(c) the names and addresses of the persons authorised
to accept service on behalf of the company; or
(d) the address of —
(i) the registered or principal office of the
company; or
(ii) the principal place of business of the
company within Sri Lanka,
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 375
the company shall, within the prescribed time, deliver to the
Registrar for registration, a return containing the prescribed
particulars of the alteration.
492. (1) Every registered overseas company shall in Financial
every calendar year prepare financial statements, and where statements of
overseas
the company is a holding company, group financial
company.
statements, in such form and containing such particulars and
including such documents, as under the provisions of this
Act (subject however to any prescribed exceptions) it would,
if it had been a company of the same description within the
meaning of this Act, have been required to prepare and deliver
certified copies of those documents to the Registrar for
registration.
(2) Where any document referred to in subsection (1) is
not in an official language of Sri Lanka or in English, there
shall be annexed to it a translation in a language specified by
the Registrar and certified in the prescribed manner.
493. (1) Where it appears to the Registrar that the Name of
corporate name of a registered overseas company is a name overseas
company.
by which the company, had it been formed under this Act,
would on the relevant date have been precluded from being
registered under section 7 of this Act, or in respect of which a
direction could have been given under subsection (1) of
section 10, the Registrar may serve a notice on that registered
overseas company stating why the name could not have been
registered, or the grounds on which such a direction could
have been given, as the case may be.
(2) No notice under subsection (1) may be served on a
company later than twelve months after the relevant date.
(3) The “relevant date” for the purposes of subsections (2)
and (3) is—
(a) the date on which the overseas company has
complied with the provisions of section 489; or
376 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(b) if there has been a change in the corporate name of
the overseas company, the date on which notice of
that change was given under section 491.
(4) A registered overseas company on which a notice has
been served under subsection (1) —
(a) may deliver to the Registrar a notice in the prescribed
form, specifying a name approved by the Registrar,
other than its corporate name under which it proposes
to carry on business in Sri Lanka; and
(b) may after that name has been registered, at any time
deliver to the Registrar, a notice in the prescribed
form specifying a name approved by the Registrar,
other than its corporate name, in substitution for the
name previously registered.
(5) The name by which an overseas company is for the
time being registered under subsection (4), shall for all
purposes of the law of Sri Lanka, be deemed to be the name of
the company. The provisions of this subsection—
(a) shall not affect references to the corporate name of
the company in this section;
(b) shall not affect any rights or obligations of the
company or render defective any legal proceedings
by or against the company. Any legal proceedings
that might have been commenced or continued
against the company by its corporate name, may be
commenced or continued against it by the name by
which it is for the time being registered.
(6) The Registrar may withdraw a notice given under
subsection (1), if he is satisfied that it ought not to have been
given, or that the circumstances in which it was given have
changed, and at the time of withdrawal there would not be
any grounds on which such a notice could be given. The
provisions of subsection (7) shall not apply in respect of a
notice that has been withdrawn under this subsection.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 377
(7) A registered overseas company on which a notice has
been served under subsection (1), shall not at any time after
the expiration of two months from the service of that notice,
(or such longer period as may be specified in the notice)
carry on business in Sri Lanka under its corporate name.
(8) Where a registered overseas company fails to comply
with the requirements of subsection (7)—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two
hundred thousand rupees;
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence, and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand
rupees.
494. Every registered overseas company shall— Obligation to
state name and
(a) in every prospectus inviting subscriptions for its particulars of
shares or debentures in Sri Lanka, state the country company.
in which the company is incorporated;
(b) ensure that at every place where it carries on business
in Sri Lanka, the name of the company and the
country in which the company is incorporated are
clearly displayed;
(c) ensure that its name and the name of the country in
which it is incorporated, are clearly stated in—
(i) all business letters of the company;
(ii) all notices and other official publications of
the company;
(iii) all bills of exchange, promissory notes,
endorsements, cheques and orders for money
or goods signed on behalf of the company;
(iv) all invoices, receipts and letters of credit of
the company; and
378 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(v) all other documents issued or signed by the
company which evidence or create a legal
obligation of the company; and
(d) where the liability of the members of the company
is limited, cause notice of that fact to be clearly
stated in every such prospectus and in all letters and
other documents referred to in paragraph (c), and to
be clearly displayed at every place where it carries
on its business.
Service on 495. (1) Any document or notice required to be served
overseas on a registered overseas company, shall be sufficiently served
company. if addressed to any person whose name has been delivered to
the Registrar under this Part of this Act, and left at or sent by
post to the address which has been so delivered.
(2) Where—
(a) any registered overseas company has failed to
deliver to the Registrar the name and address of a
person resident in Sri Lanka, who is authorised to
accept on behalf of the company service of
documents or notices; or
(b) at any time, all the persons whose names and
addresses have been so delivered are dead or have
ceased to reside in Sri Lanka or refuse to accept
service on behalf of the company or for any reason
cannot be served,
a document may be served on the company by leaving it at or
sending it by post, to any place of business established by
the company in Sri Lanka.
Registrar to be 496. Where any registered overseas company ceases to
notified when have a place of business in Sri Lanka, it shall forthwith give
company ceases notice of the fact to the Registrar. As from the date on which
to have place of
notice is so given, the obligation of the company to deliver
business in Sri
Lanka. any document to the Registrar shall cease.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 379
497. (1) An application may be made to the court for Liquidation of
the winding up of the assets in Sri Lanka of an overseas assets in Sri
Lanka of
company in accordance with Part XII, subject to the
overseas
modifications and exclusions set out in the Thirteenth
company.
Schedule.
(2) An application may be made under subsection (1),
whether or not the overseas company—
(a) is a registered overseas company;
(b) has given notice under section 496 that it has ceased
to have a place of business in Sri Lanka ; or
(c) has been dissolved or otherwise ceased to exist as a
company, under or by virtue of the laws of any other
country.
498. Where any company to which this Part of this Act Penalties for
applies, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this Part non-compliance.
other than section 493, the company, and every officer or
agent of the company who knowingly and willfully authorises
or permits the default, shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand
rupees.
499. (1) Where any overseas company has failed to Enforcement of
comply with any provision of this Part of this Act, and fails to duty to comply
make good the default within ten working days from the date with provisions
of service of a notice on the company requiring it to do so, of this Part.
the court may on an application made to the court by the
Registrar or by any creditor of the company or by any other
person who appears to the court to be interested, make an
order directing the company and any officer of the company
to make good the default within such time as may be specified
in the order.
(2) Any order made under subsection (1) may provide
that, all costs of and incidental to the application, shall be
borne by the company or by any officer of the company
responsible for the default.
380 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(3) Nothing in this section shall prejudice the operation
of any enactment imposing penalties on a company or its
officers ,in respect of any default referred to in subsection (1).
RESTRICTIONS ON SALE OF SHARES AND OFFER OF SHARE
FOR SALE
Dating of 500. (1) It shall not be lawful for any person to issue,
prospectus and circulate, or distribute in Sri Lanka any prospectus offering
particulars to be
for subscription any shares in or debentures of a company,
contained
incorporated or to be incorporated outside Sri Lanka, whether
therein.
the company has or has not established or when formed will
or will not establish a place of business in Sri Lanka, unless
the prospectus is dated and—
(a) contains particulars with respect to the following
matters :—
(i) the instrument constituting or defining the
constitution of the company ;
(ii) the enactments or provisions having the force
of an enactment, by or under which the
incorporation of the company was effected ;
(iii) an address in Sri Lanka where the said
instrument, enactments, or provisions or
copies thereof and if the same are in a
language other than the official language of
Sri Lanka or in English, a translation thereof
in a language specified by the Registrar and
certified in the prescribed manner, can be
inspected ;
(iv) the date on which and the country in which
the company was incorporated ;
(v) whether the company has established a place
of business in Sri Lanka and, if so, the address
of its principal office in Sri Lanka ;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 381
(b) states the matters specified in Part I of the Fourth
Schedule hereto, and subject to the provisions
contained in Part III, sets out the reports specified in
Part II, of that Schedule :
Provided that the provisions of subparagraphs (i),
(ii) and (iii) of paragraph (a) shall not apply in the
case of a prospectus issued more than two years from
the date on which the company is entitled to
commence business, and in the application of Part I
of the Fourth Schedule hereto for the purposes of this
subsection, paragraph 3 of Part I of such Schedule
shall have effect with the substitution for the reference
to the articles, of a reference to the constitution, of
the company.
(2) Any condition requiring or binding an applicant for
shares or debentures, to waive compliance with any
requirements imposed by virtue of paragraph (a) or paragraph
(b) of subsection (1), or purporting to affect him with notice
of any contract, document, or matter not specifically referred
to in the prospectus, shall be void.
(3) It shall not be lawful for any person to issue to any
person in Sri Lanka a form of application for shares in or
debentures of such a company or intended company as is
referred to in subsection (1), unless the form is issued with a
prospectus which complies with this Part and the issue thereof
in Sri Lanka, does not contravene the provisions of subsection
(1) of section 501 :
Provided that the provisions of this subsection shall not
apply, where it is shown that the form of application was
issued in connection with a bona fide invitation to a person
to enter into an underwriting agreement with respect to the
shares or debentures.
(4) In the event of non-compliance with or contravention
of any of the requirements imposed by paragraphs (a) and (b)
of subsection (1), a director or other person responsible for
382 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
the issue of the prospectus shall not incur any liability by
reason of such non-compliance or contravention, where—
(a) as regards any matter not disclosed, he proves he
was not cognizant thereof ;
(b) he proves that such non-compliance or
contravention arose from a bona fide mistake of
fact on his part ; or
(c) such non-compliance or contravention was in
respect of matters which in the opinion of the court
dealing with the case, were immaterial or were
otherwise such as ought, in the opinion of that court
having regard to all the circumstances of the case,
reasonably to be excused :
Provided that, in the event of failure to include in
a prospectus a statement with respect to the matters
contained in paragraph 17 of the Fourth Schedule
hereto, no director or other person shall incur any
liability in respect of the failure, unless it be proved
that he had knowledge of the matters not disclosed.
(5) The provisions of this section—
(a) shall not apply to the issue to existing members or
debenture holders of a company, of a prospectus or
form of application relating to shares in or debentures
of the company, whether an applicant for shares or
debentures has or does not have a right to renounce
in favour of other persons ; and
(b) except in so far as it requires a prospectus to be
dated, shall not apply to the issue of a prospectus
relating to shares or debentures which are or are to
be in all respects, uniform with the shares or
debentures previously issued,
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 383
but, subject as aforesaid, the provisions of this section shall
apply to a prospectus or form of application whether issued
on or with reference to, the formation of a company or
subsequently.
(6) Nothing in this section shall limit or diminish any
liability which any person may incur under the provisions of
this Act, other than this section.
501. (1) It shall not be lawful for any person to issue,
Provisions as to
circulate or distribute in Sri Lanka, any prospectus offering expert’s consent
for subscription shares in or debentures of a company and allotment.
incorporated outside Sri Lanka, whether the company has or
has not established or when formed, will or will not be
established, a place of business in Sri Lanka—
(a) if, where the prospectus includes a statement
purporting to be made by an expert, he has not given
or has before delivery of the prospectus for
registration withdrawn his written consent to the
issue of the prospectus, with the statement included
in the form and context in which it is included, or
there does not appear in the prospectus a statement
that he has given and has not withdrawn his consent
as aforesaid ; or
(b) if the prospectus does not have the effect, where an
application is made in pursuance thereof, of
rendering all persons concerned bound by all the
provisions other than penal provisions of section
47, so far as applicable thereto.
(2) In this section the expression “expert” includes an
engineer, a valuer, an accountant and any other person whose
profession gives authority to a statement made by him, and
for the purposes of this section, a statement shall be deemed
to be included in a prospectus, if it is contained in or in any
report or memorandum appearing on the face of or by reference
incorporated in or issued with, such prospectus.
384 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Registration of 502. It shall not be lawful for any person to issue, circulate
prospectus. or distribute in Sri Lanka, any prospectus offering for
subscription shares in or debentures of a company
incorporated or to be incorporated outside Sri Lanka, whether
the company has or has not established or when formed will
not estabilsh a place of business in Sri Lanka, unless before
the issue, circulation or distribution of the prospectus in Sri
Lanka, a copy thereof certified by the Chairman of the
company as having been approved by resolution of the
managing body, has been so delivered and there is endorsed
on or attached to the copy—
(a) any consent to the issue of the prospectus required
by the provisions of section 501 ; and
(b) where the person making any report in accordance
with Part II of the Fourth Schedule hereto, have made
therein or have without giving reasons indicated
therein, any such adjustments as are mentioned in
paragraph 30 of that Schedule, a written statement
signed by those persons setting out the adjustments
and giving the reasons therefor.
Penalty for 503. Any person who is knowingly responsible for the
contravention of issue, circulation or distribution of prospectus or for the issue
section 500,
of a form of application for shares or debentures in
section 501 or
section 502. contravention of any of the provisions of section 500, section
501, or section 502, shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand
rupees.
Civil liability for 504. The provisions of section 41 shall extend to every
misstatements in prospectus offering for subscription shares in or debentures
prospectus.
of a company incorporated or to be incorporated outside Sri
Lanka, whether the company has or has not established or
when formed will or will not establish a place of business in
Sri Lanka, with the substitution for any reference to section
38, of the reference to section 501.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 385
505. (1) Where any document by which shares in or Interpretation of
debentures of a company incorporated outside Sri Lanka are provisions as to
prospectuses.
offered for sale to the public would, where the company
concerned had been a company within the meaning of this
Act, have been deemed by virtue of the provisions of section
43 to be a prospectus issued by the company, that document
shall be deemed to be for the purposes of this Part of this Act,
a prospectus issued by the company.
(2) An offer of shares or debentures for subscription or
sale to any person, whose ordinary business it is to buy or sell
shares or debentures, whether as principal or agent, shall not
be deemed to be an offer to the public for the purposes of this
Part.
(3) In this Part, the expressions “prospectus”, “shares” and
“debentures” shall have the same meanings as and when used
in relation to a company incorporated under this Act.
PART XIX
ADVISORY COMMISSION
506. (1) For the purposes of advising the Minister on Appointment
any matters in relation to the law relating to companies, the &c. of Advisory
Commission.
Minister may—
(a) constitute a Commission (hereinafter referred to as
the “Advisory Commission”) consisting of not less
than five and not more than ten persons with suitable
qualifications ; and
(b) appoint one of such persons to be Chairman of the
said Advisory Commission.
(2) It shall be the duty of the Advisory Commission—
(a) to inquire into and report to the Minister on any
matter or question relating to companies and the
