Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 19
(3) Where after its incorporation, a company enters into a
contract in the same terms as or in substitution for, a pre-
incorporation contract (not being a contract ratified by the
company under section 23), the liability of a person under
subsection (1) shall be discharged.
25. Where a company has acquired property pursuant to Failure to
a pre-incorporation contract that has not been ratified by the ratify.
company after its incorporation, a court may on an application
made in that behalf by the party from whom the property was
acquired, make an order —
(a) directing the company to return property acquired
under the pre-incorporation contract, to that party;
(b) validating the contract in whole or in part; or
(c) granting any other relief in favour of that party
relating to that property acquired.
AUTHENTICATION OF DOCUMENTS BY COMPANY
26. A document or record of proceedings requiring Authentication
authentication by a company shall be signed by a director, of documents
secretary, or other authorised officer of the company. by company.
PART II
PRIVATE COMPANIES
27. The articles of a private company shall include Articles of a
provisions which— private
company.
(a) prohibit the company from offering shares or other
securities issued by the company to the public; and
(b) limit the number of its shareholders to fifty, not
including shareholders who are—
(i) employees of the company; or
20 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(ii) former employees of the company who
became shareholders of the company while
being employees of such company and who
have continued to be shareholders after
ceasing to be employees of the company.
Company 28. (1) If a private company alters its articles in such a
ceasing to be a way that the articles no longer comply with the requirments
private of section 27—
company.
(a) the company shall cease to be a private company;
(b) provisions of sections 30 and 31 shall cease to apply
to that company; and
(c) the company shall be deemed to have changed its
name in accordance with section 11.
(2) If a private company fails to comply with the
requirements specified in section 27—
(a) the company shall cease to be a private company;
(b) provisions of sections 30 and 31 shall cease to apply
to that company; and
(c) the company shall be deemed to have changed its
name in accordance with section 11.
(3) The court may determine that provisions of subsection
(2) shall not apply in respect of failure by a private company,
where it is satisfied that—
(a) the failure to comply was due to inadvertence;
(b) the failure to comply has been rectified; or
(c) in all the circumstances of the case it is just and
equitable to reach such determination.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 21
29. Where a limited company alters its articles so that Company may
the articles comply with the requirement of section 27— become a private
company.
(a) the company shall become a private company; and
(b) the company shall be deemed to have changed its
name in accordance with the provisions of
section11.
30. (1) A private company may by unanimous
Private
resolution of its shareholders dispense with the keeping of companies need
an interests register, and while such a resolution is in force, not keep interests
register.
no provision of this Act which requires any matter to be entered
in the interests register of a company, shall apply to such
private company.
(2) A unanimous resolution under subsection (1) shall
cease to have effect, if any shareholder gives notice in writing
to the company, that he requires it to keep an interests register.
31. (1) Where all the shareholders of a private company Unanimous
agree in writing to any action which has been taken, or is to agreement of
shareholders.
be taken by the company—
(a) the taking of that action is deemed to be validly
authorised by the company, notwithstanding any
provision in the articles of the company to the
contrary; and
(b) the provisions contained in the list of sections of
this Act specified in the Second Schedule hereto,
shall not apply to and in relation to that action.
(2) Without limiting the matters which may be agreed to
under subsection (1), the provisions of that subsection shall
apply where all the shareholders of a private company agree
to or concur in —
(a) the issue of shares by the company;
22 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(b) the making of a distribution by the company;
(c) the repurchase or redemption of shares in the
company;
(d) the giving of financial assistance by a company for
the purpose of or in connection with the purchase of
shares in the company;
(e) the payment of remuneration to a director, or the
making of a loan to a director, or the conferment of
any other benefit on a director; or
(f) the entering into a contract between an interested
director and the company.
(3) Where a distribution is made by a company under
subsection (2) and as a consequence of making that
distribution the company fails to satisfy the solvency test,
such distribution shall be deemed not to have been made
validly.
(4) A distribution to a shareholder which is deemed not
to have been validly made under subsection (3) may be
recovered by the company from such shareholder, unless —
(a) the shareholder received the distribution in good
faith and without knowledge of the company’s failure
to satisfy the solvency test;
(b) the shareholder has altered his position relying on
the validity of such distribution; and
(c) it would be unreasonable in view of the
circumstances, to require repayment in full or at all.
(5) Where reasonable grounds did not exist for believing
that the company would be able to satisfy the solvency test
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 23
after the making of a distribution which is deemed not to
have been validly made, each shareholder who agreed to the
making of such distribution will be personally liable to the
company, to repay to the company so much of the distribution
which the company is not able to recover from the
shareholders to whom the distribution was made.
(6) Where an action for recovery is brought against a
shareholder under subsection (4) or (5), and the court is
satisfied that the company could by making a distribution of
a lesser amount have satisfied the solvency test, the court
may —
(a) permit the shareholder to retain; or
(b) relieve the shareholder from liability in respect of,
an amount equal to the value of any distribution that the
company could properly have made under the circumstances.
PART III
COMPANIES LIMITED BY GUARANTEE
32. Any two or more persons may apply to form a
Application for
company limited by guarantee by making an application to incorporation of
the Registrar for the same in the prescribed form signed by a company
limited by
each of the initial members, together with the following
guarantee.
documents :—
(a) the articles of association of the company;
(b) a consent under section 203 from each of the initial
directors, to act as a director of the company; and
(c) a consent under section 221 from the initial
secretary, to act as secretary of the company.
