212 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
PART XI
PROVISIONS RELATING TO OFFSHORE COMPANIES
Interpretation. 260. In this Part of this Act, “company” includes a
company or a body corporate incorporated under the laws of
any foreign country.
Company 261. (1) Any company may make an application to the
incorporated for Registrar in accordance with the provisions of this Part of
business outside this Act to be registered in Sri Lanka as an off-shore company
Sri Lanka. and to be so referred to, and in the case of a company
incorporated abroad, to be deemed to be incorporated in
Sri Lanka, as if it had been incorporated under the provisions
of this Act.
(2) An application for registration under subsection (1)
shall have annexed thereto the following documents :—
(a) a certified copy of the charter, statute or
memorandum and articles of association of the
company or other instrument constituting or
defining the constitution of the company, and where
such instrument is not in an official language or in
English, a translation of the instrument in such
language as may be specified by the Registrar;
(b) a list of the directors or those managing the affairs of
the company, containing their full names, addresses,
occupations and the offices they hold in the
company;
(c) the names and addresses of one or more persons who
are resident in and are citizens of Sri Lanka, who is
or are authorised to represent the company;
(d) a statement containing the full address of—
(i) the registered or principal office of the
company in the country of incorporation; and
(ii) the office of the company in Sri Lanka;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 213
(e) a certified copy (certified of recent date of the
incorporation of the company).
(3) The company shall notify the Registrar of any
amendments or alterations in respect of any of the aforesaid
particulars within the prescribed time, and in the prescribed
form.
262. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (3) Grant of
and (4), the Registrar may, having regard to the national certificate of
registration to
interest or in the interest of the national economy, issue a
off-shore
certificate of registration to an off-shore company for the company.
carrying on of its business outside Sri Lanka, where that off-
shore company—
(a) makes payment of the prescribed fee; and
(b) produces to the Registrar a certificate from a bank,
that the prescribed sum to defray the expenses of
the off-shore company for the purposes of its office
in Sri Lanka, has been deposited to the credit of an
account at that bank in the name of the off-shore
company.
(2) A certificate of registration issued to an off-shore
company under this Part of this Act, shall exempt the
company from complying with any other provision of this
Act.
(3) No certificate of registration shall be granted to a
company under this section, where —
(a) the winding up or liquidation of such company has
commenced;
(b) a receiver of the property of such company has been
appointed;
(c) there is any scheme or order in force in relation to
such company under which the rights of creditors
are suspended or restricted.
214 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(4) Before the Registrar issues a certificate of registration
to an off-shore company under this section, he shall satisfy
himself that—
(a) in the case of a company incorporated abroad, there
is no legal impediment in the country of
incorporation to the company engaging in the
business of an off-shore company;
(b) the issue of such certificate does not render defective
any legal or other proceedings instituted or to be
instituted by or against the company,
and shall embody in the certificate such conditions as he
may deem necessary in the national interest or in the interest
of the national economy.
(5) The Registrar may for good cause cancel the
registration of an off-shore company under this Part of this
Act. Upon such cancellation, the off-shore company shall
cease to enjoy the privileges and benefits granted under this
Part of this Act or under any other written law relating to off-
shore companies.
Continuation of 263. An off-shore company which intends to continue its
business of off- business as an off-shore company under this Act shall in every
shore company.
calendar year—
(a) produce to the Registrar proof of payment of the
prescribed fee in the prescribed manner at the
commencement of that year and not later than the
thirty first day of January of that year ; and
(b) produce to the Registrar not later than the thirty-
first day of January of that year, or such later date as
the Registrar may approve, a bank certificate as
required under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of
section 262 in regard to defraying of the expenses
of the off-shore company for that year.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 215
264. (1) An off-shore company shall have power to carry Prohibition on
on any business outside Sri Lanka; but shall not be entitled carrying on
business in Sri
to carry on any business within Sri Lanka.
Lanka.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall preclude an off-shore
company securing in Sri Lanka any benefits or advantages
available under any written law which may be applicable to
it.
265. An off-shore company may cease carrying on
Cessation of
business as an off-shore company by giving notice to the business as an
Registrar in the prescribed form of its intention to do so. off-shore
company.
PART XII
WINDING UP
(1) PRELIMINARY
Modes of winding up
266. In this Part of this Act, the expression “contributory” Definition of
means every shareholder of the company and every other contributory.
person liable to contribute to the assets of a company in the
event of its being wound up, and for the purposes of all
proceedings for determining and all proceedings prior to the
final determination of, the persons who are to be deemed
contributories and includes any person alleged to be a
contributory.
267. (1) The winding up of a company may be either — Modes of
winding up.
(a) by the court;
(b) voluntary; or
(c) subject to the supervision of the court.
(2) The provisions of this Act with respect to winding up
shall apply unless the contrary appears, to the winding up of
a company in any manner set out in subsection (1).
