330 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
PART XV
RECEIVERS AND MANAGERS
Interpretation. 434. (1) In this Part of this Act, unless the context
otherwise requires—
“creditor” includes a person to whom the grantor owes
a debt or is under a liability, whether present or
future, certain or contingent and whether an
ascertained debt or liability or a liability in
damages ;
“grantee” means in relation to an instrument which
creates a floating charge, the person entitled to the
benefit of the instrument ;
“grantor” means the person in respect of whose property
a receiver is or may be appointed ;
“liquidator” means a liquidator appointed under
Part XII ;
“mortgage” includes a charge on property for securing
money or money’s worth ;
“mortgagee” includes a person from time to time
deriving title under the original mortgagee, but
does not include a receiver ;
“preferential claims” means the claims referred to in
the Ninth Schedule (except paragraph 1 of that
Schedule) ;
“property” includes—
(a) movable and immovable property ;
(b) an interest in movable or immovable
property ;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 331
(c) a debt ;
(d) any thing in action ;
(e) any other right or interest ;
“property in receivership” means property in respect
of which a receiver is appointed ;
“receiver” means a receiver or a manager or a receiver
and a manager in respect of any property,
appointed—
(a) under any instrument ; or
(b) by the court in the exercise of a power
conferred on the court by this Act,
whether or not the person appointed is empowered
to sell any of the property in receivership, but
does not include—
(c) a mortgagee who, whether personally or
through an agent, exercises a power to—
(i) receive income from mortgaged
property ;
(ii) enter into possession or assume control
of mortgaged property ; or
(iii) sell or otherwise alienate mortgaged
property ; or
(d) an agent of any such mortgagee.
POWER TO APPOINT RECEIVER
435. An instrument that creates a floating charge in Instrument may
respect of the whole of the property and undertaking of a confer power to
appoint receiver.
company, may confer on the grantee the power to appoint a
receiver of the property and undertaking of the company.
332 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
QUALIFICATIONS OF RECEIVERS
Qualifications 436. (1) The following persons may not be appointed
of receivers. or act as a receiver :—
(a) a person who is under eighteen years of age ;
(b) a creditor of the grantor ;
(c) a person who is or who has within the period of two
years immediately preceding the commencement
of the receivership, been—
(i) an officer or employee of the grantor; or
(ii) an officer or employee of the mortgagee of
the property in receivership;
(d) a person who has or who has had within the period
of two years preceding the commencement of the
receivership, an interest, whether direct or indirect,
in a share issued by the grantor;
(e) a person who is an undischarged insolvent;
(f) a person who has been adjudged to be of unsound
mind under the Mental Diseases Ordinance (Cap.
227);
(g) a person in respect of whom an order has been made
under subsection (5) of section 468;
(h) a person who was prohibited from being a director
or promoter of or being concerned or taking part in
the management of a company under section 186 of
the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982, or who would
be so prohibited but for the repeal of that Act;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 333
(i) a person who is prohibited from being a director or
promoter of or being concerned or taking part in the
management of a company under section 213 or
214;
(j) a person who is disqualified from acting as a receiver
by the instrument that confers the power to appoint
a receiver.
(2) A body corporate shall not be appointed or act as a
receiver.
(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or subsection
(2), shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand rupees.
APPOINTMENT OF RECEIVER
437. (1) Where an instrument confers on the grantee Appointment of
the power to appoint a receiver of the property and receiver under
undertaking of a company, the grantee may appoint a receiver an instrument.
by an instrument in writing signed by or on behalf of the
grantee.
(2) A receiver appointed by or under a power conferred
by an instrument shall be the agent of the grantor, unless the
instrument expressly provides otherwise.
(3) A receiver may be appointed under this section —
(a) notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
in any other law; and
(b) whether or not the property in respect of which the
receiver is appointed includes immovable property.
(4) For the avoidance of doubt—
(a) the appointment of a receiver under this section is
not a hypothecary action; and
334 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(b) nothing in section 46 of the Mortgage Act (Cap. 89)
shall affect, or shall apply in relation to, the
appointment of a receiver under this section.
Extent of power 438. (1) A power conferred by an instrument to appoint
to appoint a a receiver includes the power to appoint—
receiver.
(a) two or more receivers;
(b) a receiver additional to one or more presently in
office;
(c) a receiver to succeed a receiver whose office has
become vacant,
unless the instrument expressly provides otherwise.
(2) Two or more receivers may act jointly or severally to
the extent that they have the same powers, unless the
instrument under which or the order of the court by which
they are appointed, expressly provides otherwise.
Court may 439. (1) Without limiting the inherent jurisdiction of
appoint a the court under any other written law, the court may appoint
receiver.
a receiver of any property which is subject to a fixed security
or a floating charge granted by a company, on the application
of the grantee of that security or charge, where it is satisfied
that—
(a) the company has failed to pay a debt due to the
grantee or has otherwise failed to meet any
obligation to the grantee;
(b) the company proposes to sell or otherwise dispose
of the secured property in breach of the terms of any
instrument creating the security or charge; or
(c) it is necessary to do so to ensure the preservation of
the secured property for the benefit of the grantee.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 335
(2) A receiver may be appointed under this section—
(a) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other law; and
(b) whether or not the property in respect of which the
receiver is appointed, includes immovable property.
(3) For the avoidance of doubt—
(a) the appointment of a receiver under this section is
not a hypothecary action; and
(b) nothing in section 46 of the Mortgage Act (Cap.
89) shall affect, or shall apply in relation to the
appointment of a receiver under this section.
440. (1) A receiver shall forthwith after being appointed Notice of
and in any event no later than ten working days after being appointment of
receiver.
appointed —
(a) give written notice of his or her appointment to the
grantor;
(b) give public notice of his or her appointment,
including —
(i) the receiver’s full name;
(ii) the date of the appointment;
(iii) the receiver’s office address; and
(iv) a brief description of the property in
receivership ; and
(c) send a copy of the public notice to the Registrar.
336 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(2) Where the appointment of the receiver is in addition
to a receiver who already holds office or is in place of a
person who has vacated office as receiver, as the case may be,
every notice under this section shall state that fact.
(3) Every receiver who acts in contravention of this section
shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
Notice of 441. (1) Where a receiver is appointed in respect of the
receivership. property and undertaking of a company, every agreement
entered into and every document issued by or on behalf of
the grantor or the receiver and on which the name of the
grantor appears, shall state clearly that a receiver has been
appointed.
(2) Where a receiver is appointed in relation to a specific
asset or assets, every agreement entered into and every
document issued by or on behalf of the grantor or the receiver
that relates to the asset or assets, and on which the name of
the grantor appears, shall state clearly that a receiver has
been appointed.
(3) A failure to comply with subsection (1) or subsection
(2) shall not affect the validity of the agreement or document.
(4) Every person who—
(a) acts in contravention of subsection (1) or subsection
(2); or
(b) knowingly or willfully authorises or permits a
contravention of subsection (1) or subsection (2),
shall be guilty of an offence, and be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
Vacancy in 442. (1) The office of receiver shall become vacant if the
office of person holding office resigns, dies, or becomes disqualified
receiver. under section 436.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 337
(2) A receiver appointed under a power conferred by an
instrument, may resign office by giving not less than five
working days’ written notice of his intention to resign, to the
person by whom the receiver was appointed.
(3) If, for any reason other than resignation, a vacancy
occurs in the office of receiver, written notice of the vacancy
shall forthwith be delivered to the Registrar by the person
vacating office or if that person is unable to act, by his legal
representative.
(4) A receiver appointed by the court shall not resign
office without prior leave of the court.
(5) A person vacating the office of receiver shall where
practicable, provide such information and give such
assistance in the conduct of the receivership to his or her
successor as that person may reasonably require.
(6) On the application of a person appointed to fill a
vacancy in the office of receiver, the court may make any
order that it considers necessary or desirable to facilitate the
performance of the receiver’s duties.
(7) Every person who fails without reasonable cause to
comply with subsection (3), shall be guilty of an offence and
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand
rupees.
POWERS OF RECEIVERS
443. (1) A receiver shall have the powers and authorities Powers of
expressly or impliedly conferred by the instrument or the receivers.
order of the court by or under which the appointment was
made.
(2) Subject to the instrument or the order of the court by
or under which the appointment was made, a receiver shall
have and may exercise the powers specified in the Twelfth
Schedule.
338 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Precedence 444. (1) Where there are two or more floating charges
among subsisting over all or any part of the property of the company,
receivers.
a receiver may be appointed under this Part of this Act by
virtue of each such charge. A receiver appointed by or on the
application of the holder of a floating charge, which has
priority over any other floating charge by virtue of which a
receiver has been appointed, has the powers conferred on a
receiver by this Act, to the exclusion of any other receiver.
(2) Where two or more floating charges rank equally with
one another, and two or more receivers have been appointed
by virtue of such charges, the receivers so appointed are
deemed to have been appointed as joint receivers, and shall
act jointly, unless the instrument of appointment or each of
the respective instruments of appointment, otherwise provide.
(3) Subject to subsection (4), the powers of a receiver
appointed by or on the application of the holder of a floating
charge are suspended by, and as from the date of the
appointment of a receiver by or on the application of the
holder of a floating charge having priority over that charge,
to such extent as may be necessary to enable the receiver
second mentioned, to exercise his powers under this Act. Any
powers so suspended shall take effect again when the prior
floating charge ceases to attach to the property subject to the
charge, or when the appointment of a receiver under the prior
floating charge ceases in respect of that property, whichever
occurs first.
(4) The suspension of the powers of a receiver under
subsection (3) does not have the effect of requiring him to
release any part of the property (including any letters or
documents) of the company from his control, until he receives
from the receiver superceding him a valid indemnity (subject
to the limit of the value of such part of the property as is
subject to the charge, by virtue of which he was appointed)
in respect of any expenses, charges and liabilities he may
have incurred in the performance of his functions as receiver.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 339
(5) The suspension of the powers of a receiver under this
section shall not cause the floating charge by virtue of which
he was appointed, to cease to attach to the property in respect
of which he was appointed.
(6) Nothing in this section shall prevent the same receiver
being appointed by virtue of two or more floating charges.
445. (1) A receiver has the same powers as the board of Power to make
a company has or if the company is being wound up, as the calls on shares.
board would have had if it was not being wound up, to make
calls on the shareholders of the company in respect of
uncalled capital that is charged under the instrument by or
under which the receiver was appointed, and to charge interest
on and enforce payment of calls.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the expression
“uncalled capital” includes any amount payable in respect
of the issue of shares or under the articles of the company.
(3) The making of a call or the exercise of a power under
subsection (1) is, as between the shareholders of the company
affected and the company, deemed to be a proper call or
power made or exercised by the directors of the company.
446. (1) A receiver may execute in the name and on Execution of
behalf of the company, all documents necessary or incidental documents.
to the exercise of the receiver’s powers.
(2) A document signed on behalf of a company by a
receiver, shall be deemed to have been properly signed on
behalf of the company for the purposes of section 19.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
law or the articles of association of a company, where the
340 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
instrument under which a receiver is appointed empowers
the receiver to execute documents and to use the company’s
common seal for that purpose, the receiver may executive
documents in the name and on behalf of the company by
affixing the company’s common seal to the documents, and
attesting the affixing of the common seal.
(4) Any document which is executed in the manner
prescribed in subsection (3), shall be deemed to have been
properly executed by the company.
Obligations 447. (1) Where a receiver is appointed in respect of the
of company whole or any part of the property of a company, the company
and
and every director of the company shall—
directors.
(a) make available to the receiver all books, documents,
and information relating to the property in
receivership in the company’s possession or under
the company’s control;
(b) if required to do so by the receiver, verify by affidavit
that the books, documents and information are
complete and correct;
(c) give the receiver such assistance as he or she may
reasonably require;
(d) if the company has a common seal, make the
common seal available for use by the receiver.
(2) On the application of the receiver, the court may make
an order requiring the company or a director of the company,
to comply with the requirements of subsection (1).
Validity of 448. (1) Subject to subsection (2), no act of a receiver
acts of shall be deemed to be invalid merely because the receiver
receivers.
was not validly appointed, or is disqualified from acting as a
receiver, or is not authorised to do the act.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 341
(2) No transaction entered into by a receiver shall be
deemed to be invalid merely because the receiver was not
validly appointed or is not authorised to enter into the
transaction, unless the person dealing with the receiver has
or ought to have, by reason of his or her relationship with the
receiver or the person by whom the receiver was appointed,
knowledge that the receiver was not validly appointed or did
not have authority to enter into the transaction.
449. (1) Where the consent of a mortgagee is required Consent of
mortgagee to
for the sale of property in receivership and the receiver is
sale of property.
unable to obtain that consent, the receiver may apply to the
court for an order authorising the sale of the property, either
by itself or together with other assets.
(2) The court may on an application under subsection (1)
of this section, make such order as it thinks fit authorising
the sale of the property by the receiver, if satisfied that—
(a) the receiver has made reasonable efforts to obtain
the mortagee’s consent; and
(b) the sale—
(i) is in the interests of the grantor and the
grantor’s creditors; and
(ii) will not substantially prejudice the interests
of the mortgagee.
(3) An order under this section may be made subject to
such terms and conditions as the court thinks fit.
342 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
DUTIES OF RECEIVERS
General duties of 450. (1) A receiver shall exercise his or her powers in
receivers.
good faith.
(2) A receiver shall exercise his or her powers in a manner
he or she believes on reasonable grounds to be in the interest
of the person in whose interests he or she was appointed.
(3) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in
subsections (1) and (2), a receiver shall exercise his or her
powers having reasonable regard to the interests of —
(a) the grantor;
(b) persons claiming through the grantor, interests in
the property in receivership;
(c) unsecured creditors of the grantor; and
(d) sureties who may be called upon to fulfil obligations
of the grantor.
(4) Where a receiver appointed under an instrument acts
or refrains form acting in accordance with any directions
given by the person in whose interests he or she was appointed,
the receiver shall be deemed not to be in breach of the duty
referred to in subsection (2), but shall remain liable for any
breach of the duty referred to in subsection (1) or the duty
referred to in subsection (3).
(5) Nothing in this section shall limit or affect the
application of section 451.
Duty of receiver 451. A receiver who exercises a power of sale of property
selling property. in receivership, owes a duty to the grantor to obtain the best
price reasonably obtainable as at the time of sale.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 343
452. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any No defence or
other law or anything contained in the instrument by or under indemnity.
which a receiver is appointed—
(a) it shall not be a defence to proceedings against a
receiver for a breach of the duty imposed by section
451, that the receiver was acting as the grantor’s
agent or under a power of attorney from the grantor;
(b) a receiver shall not be entitled to compensation or
indemnity from the property in receivership or the
grantor, in respect of any liability incurred by the
receiver arising from a breach of the duty imposed
by section 451.
453. A receiver shall keep money relating to the property Duty in relation
in receivership separate from other money received in the to money.
course of but not relating to the receivership, and from other
money held by or under the control of the receiver.
454. (1) A receiver shall at all times keep accounting Accounting
records that correctly record and explain all receipts, records.
expenditure, and other transactions relating to the property
in receivership.
(2) The accounting records shall be retained by the
receiver for not less than five years after the receivership
ends.
REPORTS OF RECEIVERS
455. (1) A receiver shall, not later than two months after First report by
his appointment, prepare a report on the state of affairs with receivers.
respect to the property in receivership, including —
(a) particulars of the assets comprising the property in
receivership;
(b) particulars of the debts and liabilities to be satisfied
from the property in receivership;
344 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(c) the names and addresses of the creditors with an
interest in the property in receivership;
(d) particulars of any encumbrance over the property
in receivership held by any creditor, including the
date on which it was created;
(e) particulars of any default by the grantor in making
relevant information available; and
(f) such other information as may be prescribed.
(2) The report referred to in subsection (1) shall also
include details of—
(a) the events leading up to the appointment of the
receiver, so far as the receiver is aware of them ;
(b) property disposed of and any proposals for the
disposal of property in receivership ;
(c) amounts owing as at the date of appointment, to
any person in whose interest the receiver was
appointed ;
(d) amounts owing as at the date of appointment, to
creditors of the grantor having preferential claims ;
and
(e) amounts likely to be available for payment to
creditors, other than those referred to in paragraph
(c) or paragraph (d).
(3) A receiver may omit from the report details of any
proposals for disposal of the property in receivership, if he
considers that their inclusion would materially prejudice the
exercise of his functions.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 345
(4) A receiver who fails to comply with this section shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
456. (1) A receiver or a person who was a receiver at the
Further reports
end of the receivership, as the case may be, shall not later by receiver.
than two months after—
(a) the end of each period of six months after his
appointment as receiver ; and
(b) the date on which the receivership ends,
prepare a further report summarising the state of affairs with
respect to the property in receivership as at those dates, and
the conduct of the receivership including all amounts
received and paid, during the period to which the report
relates.
(2) The report referred to in subsection (1) shall include
details of—
(a) property disposed of since the date of any previous
report and any proposals for the disposal of property
in receivership ;
(b) amounts owing as at the date of the report, to any
person in whose interest the receiver was appointed;
(c) amounts owing as at the date of the report, to
creditors of the grantor having preferential claims ;
and
(d) amounts likely to be available as at the date of the
report for payment to creditors, other than those
referred to in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c).
(3) A receiver may omit from the report required to be
prepared in accordance with paragraph (a) of subsection (1),
346 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
details of any proposals for disposal of property in
receivership, if he or she considers that their inclusion would
materially prejudice the exercise of his or her functions.
(4) Every person who fails to comply with the
requirements of this section shall be guilty of an offence and
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand
rupees.
Extension of 457. (1) A period of time within which a person is
time for rquired to prepare a report under section 455 or section 456
preparing may be extended, on the application of that person, by-
reports.
(a) the court, where the person was appointed a receiver
by the court ; or
(b) the Registrar, where the person was appointed a
receiver by or under an instrument.
Persons entitled 458. (1) A copy of every report prepared under section
to receive 455 or section 456 shall be sent by the person required to
reports. prepare it, to —
(a) the grantor ; and
(b) every person in whose interest the receiver was
appointed.
(2) A person appointed as a receiver by the court shall
file a copy of every report prepared under section 455 or
section 456 in the office of the court.
(3) Not later than fifteen working days after receiving a
written request for a copy of any report prepared under section
455 or section 456 from —
(a) a creditor, director, or surety of the grantor ; or
(b) any other person with an interest in any of the
property in receivership,
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 347
and on payment of the reasonable costs of making and sending
the copy, the person who prepared the report shall send a
copy of the report to the person who requested for it.
(4) Within ten working days after preparing a report under
section 455 or section 456, the person who prepared the report
shall send or deliver a copy of the report to the Registrar.
(5) Every person who fails to comply with this section
shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
459. A person to whom a report must be sent in Persons entitled
accordance with the provisions of section 458 is entitled to to inspect
inspect the report during normal office hours at the office of reports.
the person required to send it.
460. (1) A receiver of a company who considers that Duty to notify
the company or any director or officer of the company has breaches of any
committed an offence under this Act or the Securities and provisions of this
Act.
Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987,
shall report that fact to the Registrar.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall impose any duty on a
receiver to investigate whether any offence of the kind referred
to in that subsection has been committed.
(3) A receiver who fails to comply with the provisions of
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
461. (1) Not later than ten working days after the Notice of end of
receivership of a company ceases, the person who held office receivership.
as receiver at the end of the receivership shall send or deliver
to the Registrar, notice in writing of the fact that the
receivership has ceased.
(2) Every person who fails to comply with the
requirements of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence
and be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees.
348 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
APPLICATION OF PROPERTY AND LIABILITY FOR COMPANY OBLIGATIONS
Preferential 462. (1) The provisions of this section applies to a
claims. receiver who was appointed under an instrument that created
a floating charge.
(2) Subject to the provisions of section 449 and to the
rights of any of the persons referred to in subsection (3), a
receiver to whom this section applies shall pay moneys
received by him to the grantee of the floating charge by
virtue of which the receiver was appointed, in or towards
satisfaction of the debt secured by the floating charge.
(3) The following persons shall be entitled to payment
out of the property of a company subject to a floating charge,
in priority to the grantee of the charge, and in the following
order of priority :—
(a) first, the holder of any fixed security, over any part
of the property that ranks prior to the floating
charge;
(b) second, the receiver, for his expenses and
remuneration and any indemnity to which he is
entitled out of the property of the company ; and
(c) third, persons entitled to preferential claims, to the
extent and in the order of priority specified in the
Ninth Schedule (except paragraphs 1 and sub-
paragraph (b) of paragraph 7).
(4) In the application of the provisions of the Ninth
Schedule in accordance with the provisions of
subsection(3)—
(a) references to a “liquidator” shall be read as references
to a “receiver” ;
(b) references to the “commencement of the winding
up” shall be read as references to the “appointment
of the receiver” ;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 349
(c) references to “company being ordered to be wound
up” or to the “winding up of the company” shall be
read as references to the “company being put into or
being in receivership”.
463. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), a Powers of
receiver may be appointed or continue to act as a receiver receiver on
liquidation.
and exercise all the powers of a receiver in respect of property
of a company that is being wound up, unless the court orders
otherwise.
(2) A receiver holding office in respect of property referred
to in subsection (1) may act as the agent of the grantor, only
with the approval of the court or with the written consent of
the liquidator.
(3) A receiver who by reason of subsection (2) is not able
to act as the agent of the grantor, does not by reason only of
that fact, become the agent of a person by whom or in whose
interests the receiver was appointed.
(4) A debt or liability incurred by a grantor through the
acts of a receiver who is acting as the agent of the grantor in
accordance with subsection (2), is not a cost, charge or expense
of the liquidation.
464. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) Liability of
and (3), a receiver is personally liable – receiver.
(a) on a contract entered into by the receiver in the
exercise of any of the receiver’s powers ; and
(b) for payment of wages or salary that during the
receivership, accrue under a contract of employment
relating to the property in receivership and entered
into before his appointment, if notice of the
termination of the contract is not lawfully given
within ten working days after the date of
appointment.
350 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(2) The terms of a contract referred to in paragraph (a) of
subsection (1) may exclude or limit the personal liability of
a receiver, other than a receiver appointed by the court.
(3) The court may on the application of a receiver, extend
the period within which notice of the termination of a contract
is required to be given under paragraph (b) of subsection (1),
and may extend that period on such terms and conditions as
the court thinks fit.
(4) Every application under subsection (3) shall be made
before the expiry of the period referred to.
(5) Subject to the provisions of subsection (7), a receiver
is personally liable, to the extent specified in subsection (6),
for rent and any other payments becoming due under an
agreement subsisting at the date of his appointment, relating
to the use, possession, or occupation by the grantor of property
in receivership.
(6) The liability of a receiver under subsection (5), is
limited to that portion of the rent or other payments which is
attributable to the period commencing ten working days after
the date of the appointment of the receiver, and ending on
the date on which the receivership ends or the date on which
the grantor ceases to use, possess, or occupy the property,
whichever is the earlier.
(7) The court may on the application of a receiver —
(a) limit the liability of the receiver to a greater extent
than that specified in subsection (6) ; or
(b) exempt the receiver from liability under
subsection(5).
(8) Nothing contained in subsection (5) or subsection (6)
shall —
(a) be taken as giving rise to an adoption by a receiver
of an agreement referred to in subsection (5) ; or
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 351
(b) render a receiver liable to perform any other
obligation under the agreement.
(9) A receiver is entitled to an indemnity out of the
property in receivership, in respect of his personal liability
under this section.
(10) Nothing contained in this section shall—
(a) limit any other right of indemnity to which a receiver
may be entitled ;
(b) limit the liability of a receiver on a contract entered
into without authority ; or
(c) confer on a receiver a right to an indemnity in respect
of liability on a contract entered into without
authority.
465. (1) The court may relieve a person who has acted Relief from
as a receiver from all or any personal liability incurred in the liability.
course of the receivership, if it is satisfied that :—
(a) the liability was incurred solely by reason of a defect
in the appointment of the receiver, or in the
instrument or order of the court by or under which
the receiver was appointed ; and
(b) the receiver acted honestly and reasonably and
ought in the circumstances to be exempted from
liability.
(2) The court may exercise its powers under subsection
(1) subject to such terms and conditions as it thinks fit.
(3) A person in whose interest a receiver was appointed is
liable, subject to such terms and conditions as the court thinks
fit, to the extent to which the receiver is relieved from liability
under subsection (1).
352 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
COURT SUPERVISION OF RECEIVERS
Court 466. The court may on the application of a receiver —
supervision of
receivers.
(a) give directions in relation to any matter arising in
connection with the performance of the functions
of the receiver ;
(b) revoke or vary, any such directions.
(2) The court may, on the application of any of the persons
referred to in subsection (3) —
(a) in respect of any period, review or fix the
remuneration of a receiver at a level which is
reasonable in the circumstances ;
(b) to the extent that an amount retained by a receiver
as remuneration is found by the court to be
unreasonable in the circumstances, order the receiver
to refund the amount ;
(c) declare whether or not a receiver was validly
appointed in respect of any property or validly
entered into possession or assumed control of any
property.
(3) Any of the following person may make an application
to the court under subsection (2) :—
(a) the receiver ;
(b) the grantor ;
(c) a creditor of the grantor ;
(d) a person claiming through the grantor an interest in
the property in receivership ;
(e) a liquidator.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 353
(4) The powers conferred under subsections (1) and (2)
shall be —
(a) in addition to any other powers the court may
exercise under this Act, any other enactment or in
exercising its inherent jurisdiction ; and
(b) exercised whether or not the receiver has ceased to
act as receiver, when the application is made.
(5) The court may, on the application of a person referred
to in subsection (3), revoke or vary an order made under
subsection (2).
(6) Subject to the provisions of subsection (7), it would
be a defence to a claim against a receiver in relation to any
act or omission by the receiver, that such act or omission was
done or omitted to be done in compliance with a direction
given under subsection (1).
(7) The court may on the application of a person referred
to in subsection (3), order that by reason of the circumstances
in which a direction was obtained under subsection (1), a
receiver is not entitled to the protection given by subsection
(6).
467. (1) The court may subject to the provisions of Court may
subsection (2), on the application of the grantor or a liquidator terminate or
limit
of the grantor —
receivership.
(a) order that a receiver shall cease to act as such as
from a specified date and prohibit the appointment
of any other receiver in respect of the property in
receivership ;
(b) order that a receiver shall as from a specified date,
act only in respect of specified assets forming part
of the property in receivership.
354 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(2) An order under subsection (1) may be made only where
the court is satisfied that —
(a) the purpose of the receivership has been satisfied so
far as possible ; or
(b) circumstances no longer justify its continuation.
(3) Unless the court orders otherwise, a copy of an
application under this section shall be served on the receiver
not less than five working days before the hearing of the
application, and the receiver may appear and be heard at the
hearing.
(4) An order under subsection (1) may be made on such
terms and conditions as the court thinks fit.
(5) An order under this section shall not affect a security
or charge over the property, in respect of which the order is
made.
(6) The court may on the application of any person who
applied for or is affected by the order, rescind or amend an
order made under this section.
Orders to enforce 468. (1) An application for an order under this section
receiver’s duties. may be made by —
(a) the registrar ;
(b) a receiver ;
(c) a person seeking appointment as a receiver ;
(d) the grantor ;
(e) the grantee,
(f) a person with an interest in the property in
receivership ;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 355
(g) a creditor of the grantor ;
(h) a guarantor of an obligation of the grantor ;
(i) a liquidator of the grantor;
(j) a receiver of the property of a grantor, in relation to
a failure to comply by another receiver of the
property of the grantor.
(2) No application may be made to the court under
paragraph (j) of subsection (1) in relation to a failure to
comply, unless notice of such failure to comply has been
served on the receiver not less than five working days before
the date of the application and , as at the date of the
application, there is a continuing failure to comply.
(3) Where the court is satisfied that there is or has been a
failure to comply, the court may —
(a) relieve the receiver of the duty to comply, wholly or
in part ; or
(b) without prejudice to any other remedy that may be
available in relation to a breach of duty by the
receiver, order the receiver to comply to the extent
specified in the order.
(4) The court may in respect of a person who fails to comply
with an order made under paragraph (b) of subsection (3), or
is or becomes disqualified under section 436 to become or
remain a receiver —
(a) remove the receiver from office ; or
(b) order that the person may be appointed to act or
may continue to act as a receiver, notwithstanding
the provisions of section 436.
356 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(5) If it is shown to the satisfaction of the court that a
person is unfit to act as a receiver by reason of —
(a) persistent failures to comply ; or
(b) the seriousness of a failure to comply,
the court shall make in relation to that person, a prohibition
order for a period not exceeding five years.
(6) A person to whom a prohibition order applies shall
not—
(a) act as a receiver in any receivership ;
(b) act as a liquidator in any winding up ; or
(c) act as an administrator under Part XIII.
(7) In making an order under this section, the court may,
if it thinks fit —
(a) make an order extending the time for compliance ;
(b) impose any term or condition ;
(c) make any other ancillary order.
(8) A copy of every order made under subsection (5) shall,
within ten working days of the order being made, be delivered
by the applicant to the Registrar who shall keep it on a public
file indexed by reference to the name of the receiver concerned.
(9) Evidence that on two or more occasions within the
preceding five years —
(a) a court has made an order to comply under this
section in respect of the same person ; or
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 357
(b) an application for an order to comply under this
section has been made in respect of the same person,
and that in each case the person has complied after
the making of the application and before the hearing,
is, in the absence of special reasons to the contrary, evidence
of persistent failures to comply for the purposes of this
section.
(10) For the purpose of this section, “failure to comply”
in relation to a receiver means, a failure by a receiver to
comply with a relevant duty, arising—
(a) under the instrument or the order of the court by or
under which the receiver was appointed ; or
(b) under this or any other Act or rule of law or Rules of
Court ; or
(c) under any order or direction of the court, other than
an order to comply made under that section,
and “comply”, “compliance”, and “failed to comply” shall
have corresponding meanings.
469. The court may on making an order that removes or Orders
has the effect of removing a receiver from office, make such protecting
property in
orders as it thinks fit —
receivership.
(a) for preserving the property in receivership ;
(b) requiring the receiver for that purpose to make
available to any person specified in the order, any
information and documents in the possession or
under the control of the receiver.
358 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
REFUSAL TO SUPPLY ESSENTIAL SERVICES
Refusal to 470. (1) For the pruposes of this section, an “essential
supply essential service” means —
services
prohibited.
(a) the retail supply of electricity ;
(b) the supply of water ; and
(c) telecommunications services.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other written
law to the contrary or any contract, a supplier of an essential
service shall not —
(a) refuse to supply the service to a receiver or to the
owner of property in receivership, by reason of the
grantor’s default in paying charges due for the
service in relation to a period before the date of the
appointment of the receiver ; or
(b) make it a condition of the further supply of the
service to a receiver or to the owner of property in
receivership, that payment be made of outstanding
charges due for the service in relation to a period
before the date of the appointment of the receiver.
(3) For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this section shall
prevent the supplier of an essential service from exercising
any right or power under any contract or under any written
law, in respect of a failure by a company to pay charges due
for the service in relation to any period, after the
commencement of the liquidation.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 359
PART XVI
REGISTRAR-GENERAL OF COMPANIES AND REGISTRATION
APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS
471. (1) There may be appointed— Appointment of
officers.
(a) a person by name or by office, to be or to act as the
Registrar-General of Companies ;
(b) persons by name or by office, to be or to act as Deputy
Registrar-Generals of Companies ;
(c) persons by name or by office, to be or to act as
Assistant Registrar-Generals of Companies ; and
(d) such other officers and servants as may from time to
time be required for the purposes of this Act.
(2) Any person appointed under subsection (1) as a Deputy
Registrar-General of Companies or an Assistant Registrar-
General of Companies may, subject to the general directions
of the Registrar, exercise all the powers, perform all the duties
and discharge all the functions of the Registrar under this
Act.
Appeals from
472. (1) A person who is aggrieved by an act or decision Registrar’s
decisions.
of the Registrar may appeal to the court within fifteen working
days after the date of receiving notice of the act or decision,
or such further time as the court may allow.
(2) The court may on an appeal made under this section,
confirm, revise, modify or set aside the act or decision against
which the appeal is made and make any order as the interest
of justice may require.
