Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 359
PART XVI
REGISTRAR-GENERAL OF COMPANIES AND REGISTRATION
APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS
471. (1) There may be appointed— Appointment of
officers.
(a) a person by name or by office, to be or to act as the
Registrar-General of Companies ;
(b) persons by name or by office, to be or to act as Deputy
Registrar-Generals of Companies ;
(c) persons by name or by office, to be or to act as
Assistant Registrar-Generals of Companies ; and
(d) such other officers and servants as may from time to
time be required for the purposes of this Act.
(2) Any person appointed under subsection (1) as a Deputy
Registrar-General of Companies or an Assistant Registrar-
General of Companies may, subject to the general directions
of the Registrar, exercise all the powers, perform all the duties
and discharge all the functions of the Registrar under this
Act.
Appeals from
472. (1) A person who is aggrieved by an act or decision Registrar’s
decisions.
of the Registrar may appeal to the court within fifteen working
days after the date of receiving notice of the act or decision,
or such further time as the court may allow.
(2) The court may on an appeal made under this section,
confirm, revise, modify or set aside the act or decision against
which the appeal is made and make any order as the interest
of justice may require.
360 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
REGISTERS AND REGISTRATION OF DOCUMENTS
Registers to be 473. (1) The Registrar shall establish and maintain a
kept. Register containing a record—
(a) of companies registered or deemed to be registered
under this Act ; and
(b) of overseas companies registered or deemed to be
registered under this Act.
(2) The Register may be kept in such manner as the
Registrar thinks fit, including either wholly or partly by
means of a device or facility that—
(a) records or stores information electronically or by
other means ; and
(b) permits that information to be readily inspected or
reproduced in legible form.
(3) The Minister may make regulations—
(a) identifying or categorizing documents which may be
destroyed by the Registrar under subsection (4) ; and
(b) providing for all such matters as may become
necessary, to give effect to any device or facility
kept by the Registrar under subsection (2) for
recording information.
(4) The Registrar shall have the power to destroy all such
documents prescribed under paragraph (a) of subsection (3).
(5) Where the Registrar reproduces electronically or by
any other means any document prior to its destruction, such
reproduced document shall for all purposes, be treated as it
were the original document, notwithstanding anything in
any law to the contrary.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 361
(6) Without prejudice to the above provisions of this
section, where any document filed with or in the custody of
the Registrar is damaged or is in danger of becoming illegible,
the Registrar may if he thinks fit, direct a copy to be made of
it, verified and certified in such manner as he may determine,
and that copy shall be substituted for, and shall for all
purposes of this Act be deemed to be, the document which is
damaged or in danger of becoming illegible.
474. The Registrar may direct a seal or seals to be Authentication
prepared for the authentication of documents required for or of documents by
seal.
connected with the authentication of documents required for
or connected with the registration of companies.
475. (1) The Registrar may, subject to the provisions of Registration of
subections (2) and (3), accept and register or record or file— documents,
copies of
documents,
(a) any doument which is by any provision of this Act
notices &c.
required or authorised to be registered or recorded
by, or filed with, the Registrar ; and
(b) any document or copy of a document, and any return
or notice, which is by any provision of this Act
required or authorised to be sent, forwarded, given,
delivered, produced or in any way notified to the
Registrar.
(2) Where a document which is received by the Registrar
for registration under this Act—
(a) required to be submitted in the prescribed form is
not in such prescribed form ;
(b) does not comply with the provisions of this Act, or
any regulations made thereunder ;
(c) is not printed or typewritten ;
(d) has not been properly completed ; or
362 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(e) contains material that is not clearly legible,
the Registrar may refuse to register such document, and in
that event shall request either—
(f) that the document be appropriately amended or
completed and submitted for registration again ; or
(g) that a fresh document be submitted in its place.
Translations of 476. (1) Where any document required to be delivered
documents filed. to the Registrar under this Act is in a language other than an
official language or English, the Registrar may request in
writing the delivery of a printed translation in such language
as may be decided by the Registrar, certified in the prescribed
manner to be a correct translation.
(2) Where a request under subsection (1) has not been
complied with, the Registrar shall take no further action on
such document.
477. (1) Regulations may be made under this Act for
Fees.
prescribing the fees payable to the Registrar for—
(a) the registration of a limited company ;
(b) the registration of an unlimited company ;
(c) the registration of a company limited by guarantee;
(d) the registration of any document required or
authorised to be registered or required to be
delivered, sent, given or forwarded to or filed with,
the Registrar, other than the notices and reports
required to be delivered to the Registrar by a receiver
or manager, an administrator or a liquidator ;
(e) the recording of any fact required or authorised by
this Act to be recorded by the Registrar ;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 363
(f) the registration of off-shore companies under Part
XI ; and
(g) the registration of overseas companies under Part
XVIII.
(2) Where no special provision is made for the payment
of a fee in respect of the registration, recording or filing of
any document, the fee to be paid to the Registrar in respect of
that registration, recording or filing shall be the same as the
fee for making a record of any fact.
(3) The Registrar may refuse to exercise a power or perform
a function, until the prescribed fee in respect of such function
is paid.
478. Where any expenses or fees payable to the Registrar Recovery of
under this Act are not paid by the person liable to pay them expenses and
fees.
upon demand, the default may be reported to a Magistrate,
and the amount of those expenses or fees shall be recovered
in the same manner as if it were a fine imposed by the
Magistrate, who shall direct that the amount in default be
credited to the Fund.
FUND
479. (1) For the purposes of this Act, there shall be Fund.
established a Fund which shall be maintained in such manner
as the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister, in
consultation with the Registrar may direct.
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund two-thirds of every
fee or charge prescribed, levied or recovered under this Act
by the Registrar.
(3) One-third of every fee or charge prescribed, levied or
recovered under this Act by the Registrar, shall be paid into
the Consolidated Fund.
364 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(4) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the Registrar-
General in the exercise, discharge and performance of his
powers, functions and duties under this Act, and all sums of
money as are required to be paid out of the Fund by or under
this Act or any regulation made thereunder.
(5) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister shall as
soon as possible after the end of each financial year, prepare
a report on the administration of the Fund and shall cause to
be maintained a full and appropriate account of the Fund in
respect of each financial year.
(6) The Auditor-General shall audit the accounts of the
Fund in accordance with Article 154 of the Constitution.
INSPECTION AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, ENFORCEMENT OF DUTY
OF COMPANIES TO MAKE RETURNS AND THE PRODUCTION AND
INSPECTION OF BOOKS
Inspection, 480. (1) Any person may, on the payment of the
production prescribed fee, inspect—
and evidence
of
(a) any document which forms part of the register ; or
documents
kept by
Registrar. (b) particulars of any registered document that have
been entered on any device or facility of the kind
referred to in subsection (2) of section 473.
(2) Any person may on the payment of the prescribed
fee, require the Registrar to provide and certify—
(a) a certificate of incorporation of a company;
(b) a copy of or extract from any other document which
forms part of the Register;
(c) particulars of any registered document that have
been entered on any device or facility of the kind
referred to in subsection (2) of section 473; or
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 365
(d) a copy of or extract from any registered document,
particulars of which have been entered on any device
or facility of the kind referred to in subsection (2) of
section 473.
(3) Nothing contained in the provisions of subsection (1)
or (2) shall apply to—
(a) any report of an inspector appointed under sections
172, 173 or 180, unless the Registrar directs
otherwise;
(b) any financial statements delivered to the Registrar
by a private company under subsection (2) of section
170 or under the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982,
unless the person applying to inspect the document
or requiring a copy or extract of it, is a shareholder
or creditor of that company ;
(c) a report filed by a receiver or administrator of a
company, unless the person applying to inspect the
document or requiring a copy or extract of it, is a
shareholder or creditor of that company.
(4) No process for compelling the production of any
document kept by the Registrar shall issue from any court,
except with the leave of that court, and any such process
shall state that it is issued with the leave of the court.
(5) A copy of or extract from any document kept and
registered at any of the offices for the registration of companies
in Sri Lanka, certified to be a true copy or extract by the
Registrar, shall in all legal proceedings be admissible in
evidence as of equal validity with the original document.
(6) Any person untruthfully stating himself to be a
shareholder or creditor of a company for the purposes of
subsection (3), shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand
rupees.
366 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Enforcement 481. (1) Where a company has failed to comply with
of duty of any provision of this Act which requires it to file with, deliver
company to
or send to the Registrar any document or to give notice to
make returns
to Registrar. him of any matter, and fails to make good the default within
ten working days from the date of service of a notice on the
company requiring it to do so, the court may on an application
made to the court by the Registrar or any creditor of the
company, make an order directing the company and any
officer of the company to make good the default within such
time as may be specified in the order.
(2) Any order made under subsection (1) may provide
that all costs of and incidental to the application, shall be
borne by the company or by any officer of the company
responsible for the default.
(3) Nothing in this section shall, rejudice the operation
of any enactment imposing penalties on a company or its
officers, in respect of any default to which subsection (1)
applies.
Unlawful 482. Any person who, being or having been employed
disclosure of in the Department of the Registrar-General, communicates
information
any information relating to any documents filed by a company
relating to
companies. under the provisions of this Act with the Registrar, or matters
connected therewith, obtained by him during the course of
his employment in or at the Department of the Registrar-
General, to any person not entitled or authorised to receive
such information, or who makes any other unlawful use of
such information, shall be guilty of an offence and be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand
rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years
or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Production 483. (1) Where on an application made to a Magistrate
and in chambers by the Attorney-General, the Registrar or any
inspection of
officer of police not below the rank of Assistant
books where
an offence is Superintendent, there is shown to be reasonable cause to
suspected. believe that any person has while an officer of a company,
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 367
committed an offence in connection with the management of
the company’s affairs, and evidence of the commission of the
offence is to be found in any books or papers of or under the
control of the company, an order may be made—
(a) authorising any person named in it to inspect those
books or papers or any of them, for the purpose of
investigating and obtaining evidence of the offence;
or
(b) requiring the secretary of the company or such other
officer of the company as may be named in the order,
to produce those books or papers or any of them to a
person named in the order at a place so named.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall apply in relation
to any books or papers of a person carrying on the business of
banking so far as they relate to the company’s affairs, as it
applies to any books or papers of or under the control of the
company, except that no order of the kind referred to in
paragraph (b) of that subsection, shall be made by virtue of
the provisions of this subsection.
(3) No appeal shall lie from a decision of a Magistrate on
an application made under this section.
484. (1) The Registrar may by written notice, direct any Registrar’s
company to furnish or produce before a date specified in the power to call for
information and
notice —
to inspect books,
registers and
(a) such information relating to the company as the documents.
Registrar may require for the purposes of this Act; or
(b) such information or explanations as the Registrar
may require in respect of any particulars stated in
any return, declaration or other document furnished
by the company—
(i) which have or should have been stated in
any return, declaration or other document
furnished by the company; or
368 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(ii) which should have been stated in any return
or other document which should have, but
actually has not, been furnished by the
company,
as at the date or dates specified in the notice; and
(c) to produce before a date specified in the notice, any
book, register or other document kept or required to
be kept by the company, in connection with its
business or transactions.
(2) Where a company fails to comply with any direction
given by the Registrar under subsection (1)—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one
hundred thousand rupees;
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
PART XVII
APPLICATION OF ACT TO EXISTING COMPANIES
Application of 485. (1) In the application of the provisions of this Act
Act to existing to existing companies, it shall apply—
companies.
(a) in the case of a limited company other than a
company limited by guarantee, as if the company
has been formed and registered under the provisions
of this Act as a limited company;
(b) in the case of a company limited by guarantee, as if
the company had been formed and registered under
the provisions of this Act as a company limited by
guarantee;
