Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 77
who was a member of the interest group did not sign
the resolution in respect of the shares registered in
that shareholder’s name and having the same
beneficial owner,
such shareholder shall be entitled to require the company to
purchase those shares in accordance with section 94.
101. The taking of any action by a company affecting Action not
the rights attached to shares shall not be invalid by reason invalid.
only that the action was not approved under section 99.
PART VI
REGISTRATION OF CHARGES
REGISTRATION OF CHARGES WITH REGISTRAR
102. (1) Where a company creates a charge to which Registration of
this section applies, it shall be the duty of the company within charges created
by companies
the time specified in subsection (3), to cause a copy of the
registered in Sri
instrument by which the charge is created or evidenced, to be
Lanka.
delivered to the Registrar for registration under this Act. The
copy of the instrument shall be accompanied by a certificate
in the prescribed form issued by a director or secretary of the
company or an attorney-at law, verifying the copy as a true
copy and containing the prescribed particulars of the charge.
(2) This section shall apply to the following charges :—
(a) a charge for the purpose of securing any issue of
debentures ;
(b) a charge on uncalled share capital of the company ;
(c) a charge created or evidenced by an instrument
which, if executed by an individual, would require
registration as a bill of sale ;
78 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(d) a charge on land wherever situated, or on any interest
in land ;
(e) a charge on book debts of the company ;
(f) a floating charge on the undertaking or property of
the company ;
(g) a charge on calls made but not paid ;
(h) a charge on a ship or aircraft or any share in a ship or
aircraft ;
(i) a charge on goodwill or intellectual property within
the meaning of the Intellectual Property Act, No. 36
of 2003 ; and
(j) a trust receipt to which section 4 of the Trust Receipts
Ordinance (Cap. 86) applies or an inland trust receipt
within the meaning of the Inland Trust Receipts
Act, No. 14 of 1990.
(3) An instrument which is required to be registered under
this section shall—
(a) in the case of instruments executed in Sri Lanka, be
registered within twenty-one working days of the
date of execution of the instrument ; or
(b) in the case of an instrument executed outside Sri
Lanka, be registered within three months of the date
of execution of the instrument.
(4) Where a charge is created in Sri Lanka but comprises
of property outside Sri Lanka, the instrument creating or
purporting to create the charge may be sent for registration
under the provisions of this secetion, notwithstanding that
further proceedings may be necessary to make the charge
valid or effectual according to the law of the country in which
the property is situated.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 79
(5) Where a negotiable instrument has been given to
secure the payment of any book debts of a company, the
deposit of the instrument for the purpose of securing an
advance to the company, shall not for the purposes of this
section, be treated as a charge on those book debts.
(6) The holding of debentures entitling the holder to a
charge on land shall not for the purposes of this section, be
treated as an interest in land.
(7) Where a series of debentures containing or giving by
reference to any other instrument any charge to the benefit of
which the debenture holder of that series are entitled pari
passu is created by a company, it shall for the purposes of this
section be sufficient if, within fifteen working days from the
date of execution of the deed containing the charge or if
there is no such deed, from the date of execution of any
debentures of the series, the following particulars :—
(a) the total amount secured by the whole series ;
(b) the dates of the resolutions authorising the issue of
the series and the date of the covering deed, if any,
by which the security is created or defined ;
(c) a general description of the property charged ; and
(d) the names of the trustees, if any, for the debenture
holders,
together with a copy of the deed containing the charge
verified in the prescribed manner, or if there is no such deed,
one of the debentures of the series, are delivered to or received
by the Registrar :
Provided that, where more than one issue is made of
debentures in the series, there shall be sent to the Registrar
for entry in the register particulars of the date and amount of
each issue. An omission to send such particulars shall not
affect the validity of the debentures issued.
80 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(8) Where any commission, allowance or discount has
been paid or made either directly or indirectly by a company
to any person, in consideration of his—
(a) subscribing or agreeing to subscribe whether
absolutely or conditionally, for any debentures of
the company ; or
(b) procuring or agreeing to procure subscriptions
whether absolute or conditional, for any such
debentures,
the particulars required to be sent for registration under the
provisions of this section shall include particulars as to the
amount or rate per centum of the commission, discount or
allowance so paid or made. An omission to send such
particulars shall not affect the validity of the debentures
issued.
(9) The deposit of any debentures as security for any debt
of the company shall not for the purposes of subsection (8),
be treated as the issue of the debentures at a discount.
(10) Registration of a charge under this section may be
effected on the application of any person interested in it.
Where registration is effected on the application of a person
other than the company, that person shall be entitled to recover
from the company the amount of any fees paid by him to the
Registrar.
(11) Where any company fails to send to the Registrar for
registration the particulars of any charge created by the
company or of the issue of debentures of a series which requires
registration under this section, then, unless the registration
has been affected on the application of some other person—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thouand rupees ; and
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 81
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
(12) The provisions of this section shall be in addition to
and not in substitution of any other written law relating to
the registration of any document or instrument creating or
purporting to create a charge on any property, whether
movable or immovable.
(13) For the purpose of this Part of this Act, “charge”
includes a mortgage.
103. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, every Unregistered
charge shall in so far as it confers any security on the charges void in
certain cases.
company’s property or undertaking, be void against the
liquidator and any creditor of the company, unless it is
registered in the manner and within the time prescribed by
section 102 of this Act or by section 91 of the Companies
Act, No. 17 of 1982, as the case may be, or if the time for
registration has been extended under section 108 of this Act,
or under section 97 the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982, then
within such extended time.
(2) Nothing in this section shall affect any contract or
obligation for repayment of money secured by a charge. If a
charge becomes void under this section, the money which it
secures shall immediately become payable.
(3) For the purpose of this section “charge” means a charge
created on or after July 2, 1982, which was required to be
registered under section 91 of the Companies Act, No. 17 of
1982 or under section 102 of this Act.
104. (1) Where a company registered in Sri Lanka Duty of
acquires any property which is subject to a charge that would, company to
register charges
if it had been created by the company after the acquisition of existing on
the property, have been required to be registered under this property
acquired.
82 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Part, the company shall, within the time specified by
subsection (2), deliver to the Registrar for registration—
(a) the prescribed particulars of the charge ; and
(b) a copy (certified in the prescribed manner to be a
correct copy) of the instrument, if any, by which the
charge was created or is evidenced.
(2) Particulars of a charge which is required to be
registered under subsection (1) shall be delivered to the
Registrar—
(a) if the property is situated and the charge was created
outside Sri Lanka, within three months of the date
on which the acquisition is completed ; or
(b) in all other cases within twenty-one working days
of the date on which the acquisition is completed.
(3) Where a company fails to comply with this section—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees ; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
Register of 105. (1) The Registrar shall keep with respect to each
charges to be company, a register in the prescribed form of all the charges
kept by
requiring registration under this Part, and shall on payment
Registrar.
of the prescribed fee enter in the register with respect to such
charges, the following particulars :—
(a) in the case of a charge to the benefit of which the
holders of a series of debentures are entitled, the
particulars specified in subsection (8) of
section102;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 83
(b) in the case of any other charge—
(i) if it is a charge created by the company, the
date of its creation, and if it is a charge which
was existing on property acquired by the
company, the date of the acquisition of the
property ;
(ii) the amount secured by the charge ;
(iii) short particulars of the property charged ;
(iv) the persons entitled to the charge.
(2) The Registrar shall issue a certificate in the prescribed
form, of the registration of any charge registered under this
Part stating the amount secured by it. The certificate shall be
conclusive evidence that the requirements of this Part as to
registration have been complied with.
(3) Registration of a charge under this Part shall constitute
notice to all persons of the particulars of the charge entered
on the register of charges under this section, but not of the
contents of the instrument which creates or is evidence of the
charge.
106. (1) The company shall cause a copy of every Endorsement of
certificate of registration given under provision of section certificate of
registration on
105 to be endorsed on every debenture or certificate of
debentures.
debenture stock which is issued by the company, and the
payment of which is secured by the charge so registered.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall be construed as
requiring a company to cause a certificate of registration of
any charge to be endorsed on any debenture or certificate of
debenture stock issued by the company, before the charge
was created.
84 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(3) Where any person knowingly and willfully authorises
or permits the delivery of any debenture or certificate of
debenture stock, which under the provisions of this section
is required to have endorsed on it a copy of a certificate of
registration without the copy being so endorsed upon it, he
shall without prejudice to any other liability, be guilty of an
offence and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two
hundred thousand rupees.
Entries of 107. Where the Registrar is satisfied that—
satisfaction and
release.
(a) the debt for which any registered charge was given
has been paid or satisfied in whole or in part ; or
(b) any part of the property or undertaking charged has
been released from the charge or has ceased to form
part of a company’s property or undertaking,
he may enter on the register a memorandum of satisfaction in
whole or in part or of the fact that part of the property or
undertaking has been released from the charge or has ceased
to form part of the company’s property or undertaking, as the
case may be.
Rectification of 108. If the court is satisfied that—
register of
charges.
(a) the omission to register a charge within the time
required by this Act ; or
(b) the omission or mis-statement of any particular with
respect to any such charge or in a memorandum of
satisfaction,
was accidental or due to inadvertence or to some other
sufficient cause or is not of a nature to prejudice the position
of creditors or shareholders of the company or it is otherwise
just and equitable to grant relief, the court may on the
application of the company or any person interested and on
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 85
such terms and conditions as seem to the court just and
expedient, order that the time for registration shall be
extended, or that the omission or misstatement shall be
rectified, as the case may be.
PROVISIONS AS TO COMPANY’S REGISTER OF CHARGES AND AS TO
COPIES OF INSTRUMENTS CREATING CHARGES
109. Every company shall keep a copy of every Copies of
instrument creating any charge requiring registration under instruments
creating charges
this Part at its registered office or at such other place as may
to be kept by
be notified to the Registrar under section 116. In the case of company.
a series of uniform debentures, a copy of one debenture of the
series shall be sufficient.
110. (1) Every limited company shall— Company’s
register of
charges.
(a) keep at its registered office or at such other place as
may be notified to the Registrar under section 116,
a register of charges ; and
(b) enter in that register all charges specifically affecting
property of the company and all floating charges on
the undertaking or any property of the company,
specifying in each case —
(i) a short description of the property charged ;
(ii) the amount of the charge ;
(iii) except in the case of securities to bearer, the
names of the persons entitled to the charge.
(2) Any officer of the company who knowingly and
willfully authorises or permits the omission of any entry
required to be made under the provisions of this section,
shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding two hundred thousand rupees.
86 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
REVIEW OF REGISTER OF CHARGES
Review of 111. (1) The Registrar may from time to time by notice
Register of in writing issued to a company, require that company to deliver
charges. to him within fifteen working days of the receipt of such
notice—
(a) the particulars required to be provided under section
102 in respect of all charges which have been
registered under this Part or under Part III of the
Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 or Part III of the
Companies Ordinance (Cap. 145), in relation to the
property or undertaking of the company, and which
have not been satisfied in whole or otherwise ceased
to apply to any property of the company ;
(b) a certified copy of the instrument, if any, by which
each such charge is created or evidenced ;
(c) a copy of the certificate issued by the Registrar on
the registration of each such charge ;
(d) an affidavit sworn or affirmed by a director or the
secretary of the company, verifying that the
information provided under this section is to the
best of his knowledge, complete and accurate in
every particular.
(2) Following receipt from a company of the documents
required to be provided under subsection (1), the Registrar
shall review the register of charges kept by him, and shall
make such entries in the register as may be required to ensure
the accuracy of the register.
(3) The Registrar shall not enter a memorandum of
satisfaction of a charge in whole or in part or of the fact that
part of the property or undertaking has been released from a
charge or has ceased to form part of the company’s property
or undertaking, pursuant to a review under this section.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 87
(4) Where a company fails to compaly with a notice given
under subsection (1)—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees ; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence, and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
APPLICATION OF THIS PART TO OVERSEAS COMPANIES
112. The provisions of this Part of this Act shall apply in Application of
relation to charges on property in Sri Lanka which are created this Part to
and to charges on property in Sri Lanka which is acquired, by charges and
property to be
an overseas company.
acquired by an
overseas
PART VII company.
MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
REGISTERED OFFICE
113. (1) Every company shall have a registered office Registered office
in Sri Lanka to which all communications and notices may of a company.
be addressed.
(2) Subject to section 114, the registered office of a
company at a particular time is the place that is described in
the register as its registered office at that time.
(3) If the registered office of a company is at the office of
any chartered accountant, attorney-at-law, or any other
person, the description of the registered office shall state—
(a) that the registered office of the company is at the
office of the chartered accountant, attorney-at-law,
or any other person ; and
(b) particulars of the location of those offices.
