26 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
intention and shall afford the association or company an
opportunity of being heard in opposition to the revocation.
(8) Where an association in respect of which a licence
under this section is in force alters the provisions of its
constitution with respect to its objects, the Registrar may,
unless he sees fit to revoke the licence, vary, add to or alter
the terms and conditions subject to which the license was
granted.
Provisions 35. (1) The provisions contained in the list of sections
which apply to of this Act specified in the Third Schedule hereto, shall not
companies
apply to and in respect of a company limited by guarantee.
limited by
guarantee.
(2) The provisions of this Act other than the sections
referred to in subsection (1), shall apply to a company limited
by guarantee with all necessary modifications, as if—
(a) the company were a limited company ;
(b) references to shareholders were references to
members of the company ;
(c) each member held one share in the company ; and
(d) references to the share register were references to
the register of members.
PART IV
SHARES AND DEBENTURES
PROSPECTUS
Dating of 36. A prospectus issued by or on behalf of a company or
prospectus. in relation to a company to be formed shall bear a date, and
such date shall unless the contrary is proved, be taken as the
date of publication of such prospectus.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 27
37. (1) Every prospectus issued by or on behalf of a Specific
company or by or on behalf of any person who is or has been requirements as
to particulars in
engaged or interested in the formation of the company, shall
prospectus.
contain the information specified in Part I of the Fourth
Schedule hereto and set out the reports specified in Part II of
that Schedule. The provisions of Parts I and II shall have
effect, subject to the provisions contained in Part III of that
Schedule.
(2) A condition requiring or binding an applicant for
shares in or debentures of a company, to waive compliance
with any requirement of this section, or purporting to affect
him with notice of any contract, document, or matter not
specifically referred to in the prospectus, shall be void.
(3) It shall not be lawful to issue any form for application
for shares in or debentures of a company, unless the form is
issued with a prospectus which complies with the requirements
of this section :
Provided that the provisions of this subsection shall not
apply, where it is shown that the form for application was
issued either—
(a) in connection with a bona fide invitation to a person
to enter into an under-writing agreement with respect
to the shatres or debentures ;
(b) in relation to shares or debentures which were not
offered to the public ; or
(c) in relation to issuance of commercial papers by a
company listed on a stock exchange and offered to
the public.
(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2),
any person who acts in contravention of the provisions of
subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand
rupees.
28 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(5) In the event of non-compliance with or contravention
of any of the requirements of this section, a director or other
person responsible for the issue of the prospectus shall not
incur any liability by reason of such non-compliance or
contravention, if—
(a) as regards any matter not disclosed he proves that
he was not cognizant thereof ;
(b) he proves that the non-compliance or contravention
arose from an honest mistake of fact on his part ; or
(c) the non-compliance or contravention was in respect
of any matter which in the opinion of the court was
immaterial or was otherwise such as ought, having
regard to all the circumstances of the case, reasonably
to be excused :
Provided that, in the event of failure to include in a
prospectus a statement with respect to the matters specified
in paragraph 17 of the Fourth Schedule hereto, no director or
other person shall incur any liability in respect of the failure,
unless it be proved that he had knowledge of the matters not
disclosed.
(6) The provision of this section shall not apply to the
issue to existing shareholders or debenture holders of a
company, of a prospectus or form of application relating to
shares in or debentures of the company, whether an applicant
for shares or debentures shall or shall not have the right to
renounce in favour of other persons. Save as aforesaid, the
provisions of this section shall apply to a prospectus or a
form of application whether issued on or with reference to
the formation of a company or subsequently.
(7) Nothing in this section shall limit or diminish any
liability which a person may incur under any written law or
under this Act (other than this section).
(8) Where a prospectus has been sent for registration in
accordance with the provisions of section 40 and has been
1-25T 7
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 29
registered by the Registrar, nothing in the preceding
provisions of this section shall be deemed or construed to
prohibit the issue or publication of any notice, circular or
advertisement stating that the prospectus has been registered
and issued and that copies thereof are available on
application, if such notice, circular or advertisement does
not contain any invitation to the public to subscribe for or
purchase any shares in or debentures of a company.
38. (1) A prospectus inviting persons to subscribe for Expert’s consent
shares in or debentures of a company and including a to issue of
prospectus
statement purporting to be made by an expert, shall not be
containing
issued, unless—
statement by
him.
(a) such expert has given and has not before delivery of
a copy of the prospectus for registration, withdrawn
his written consent to the issue thereof with the
statement included in the form and context in which
it is included ; and
(b) a statement appears in the prospectus that such expert
has given and has not withdrawn his consent as
referred to in paragraph (a).
(2) Where any prospectus is issued in contravention of
the provision of this section, the company and every person
who is knowingly a party to the issue thereof, shall be guilty
of an offence and be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding two hundred thousand rupees.
(3) For the purpose of this section, the term “expert”
includes an engineer, a valuer, an auditor, an accountant and
any other person having similar professional qualifications.
39. (1) No bank shall be named as a company’s banker Consent of bank
in any prospectus inviting persons to subscribe for shares in or attorney-at-
law or auditor
or debentures of the company, unless such bank has given
necessary for
and has not before delivery of a copy of the prospectus for inclusion of
registration, withdrawn its written consent to the inclusion name in
prospectus.
in such prospectus of its names as the company’s banker :
30 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Provided that a bank shall not be deemed for the purposes
of this Act to have authorised the issue of a prospectus, by
reason only of it having given the consent to the inclusion in
such prospectus of its name as the company’s bankers.
(2) No attorney-at-law shall be named as a company’s
lawyer in a prospectus inviting persons to subscribe for shares
in or debentures of the company, unless such attorney-at-law
has given and has not before delivery of a copy of the
prospectus for registration, withdrawn his written consent to
the inclusion in such prospectus of his name as the company’s
lawyer :
Provided that an attorney-at-law shall not be deemed for
the purposes of this Act to have authorised the issue of a
prospectus, by reason only of his having given the consent
to the inclusion in such prospectus of his name as the
company’s lawyer.
(3) No auditor shall be named as a company’s auditor in a
prospectus inviting persons to subscribe for shares in or
debentures of the company, unless such auditor has given
and has not before delivery of a copy of the prospectus for
registration, withdrawn his written consent to the inclusion
in such prospectus of his name as the company’s auditor :
Provided that an auditor shall not be deemed for the
purposes of this Act to have authorized the issue of a
prospectus, by reason only of his having given the consent
to the inclusion in such prospectus of his name as the
company’s auditor.
(4) Where the name of any bank, attorney-at-law or auditor
is included in any prospectus of a company in contravention
of the provisions of this section, the company and every
person who is knowingly a party to the issue thereof, shall be
guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding two hundred thousand rupees.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 31
40. (1) No prospectus shall be issued by or on behalf of Registration of
a company or in relation to a company to be formed, unless prospectus.
on or before the date of its publication, there has been
delivered to the Registrar for registration a copy of such
prospectus signed by every person who is named in such
prospectus as a director or proposed director of the company,
or by his agent authorised in writing, and having endorsed
thereon or attached thereto—
(a) written consent from an expert to the issue of the
prospectus as required by section 38 ;
(b) a declaration made and subscribed to by every
person who is named in such prospectus as a director
or a proposed director of the company, to the effect
that he has read the provisions of this Act relating to
the issue of a prospectus and that those provisions
have been complied with ; and
(c) in the case of prospectus issued generally, where the
persons making any report required by Part II of the
Fourth Schedule hereto have made or have without
giving the reasons, indicated in such prospectus any
such adjustments as are mentioned in paragraph 30
of that Schedule, and a written statement signed by
such person setting out the adjustments and giving
the reasons therefor.
(2) Every prospectus shall on the face of it—
(a) state that a copy has been delivered for registration
as required by this section ; and
(b) set out or refer to statements included in the
prospectus which specify any documents required
by this section to be endorsed on or attached to the
copy so delivered.
32 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(3) The Registrar shall not register a prospectus—
(a) unless the copy thereof is signed in the manner
required by this section ;
(b) unless it has endorsed thereon or attached thereto
the dosuments (if any) specified as aforesaid ;
(c) unless it bears the date of the delivery of the copy
thereof to the Registrar under this section, or it bears
a future date to be inserted in such prospectus under
the provisions of section 36 ; and
(d) where it bears a future date as hereinbefore provided,
unless that date has been confirmed or altered by
notice served on the Registrar.
(4) Where a prsopectus is issued without a copy thereof
being delivered under this section to the Registrar or without
a copy so delivered having been endorsed thereon or attached
thereto the required documents referred to in subsection (1),
the company and every person who is knowingly a party to
the issue of the prospectus, shall be guilty of an offence and
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred
thousand rupees.
Civil liability for 41. (1) Subject to the provisions of this section, where
untrue in a prospectus invites persons to subscribe for shares in or
prospectus. debentures of a company, the following persons shall be liable
to pay compensation to all persons who subscribe for any
shares or debentures on the faith of the prospectus, for the
loss or damage they may have sustained by reason of any
untrue statement included in such prospectus, that is to say:—
(a) every person who is a director of the company, at
the time of the issue of the prospectus ;
(b) every person who has authorised himself to be
named and is named in the prospectus as a director
or as having agreed to become a director, either
immediately or after an interval of time ;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 33
(c) every person being a promoter of the company ; and
(d) every person who has authorised the issue of the
prospectus :
Provided that, where under the provisions of section 38,
the consent of any person is required to the issue of a
prospectus and such person has given such consent, such
person shall not by reason of his having given such consent,
be liable under the provisions of this subsection as a person
who has authorised the issue of the prospectus, except in
respect of an untrue statement purporting to be made by him
as an expert.
(2) No person shall be liable under the provisions of
subsection (1), if he proves that—
(a) having consented to become a director of the
company he withdrew his consent before the issue
of the prospectus and that it was issued without his
authority or consent ;
(b) the prospectus was issued without his knowledge or
consent and that on becoming aware of its issue, he
forthwith gave reasonable public notice that it was
issued without his knowledge or consent ;
(c) after the issue of the prospectus and before allotment
thereunder, he on becoming aware of any untrue
statement in such prospectus, withdrew his consent
thereto and gave reasonable pubilc notice of the
withdrawal and of the reasons therefor ; or
(d) (i) as regards every untrue statement not
purporting to be made on the authority of an
expert or of a public official document or
statement, he had reasonable ground to
believe and did up to the time of the allotment
of the shares or debentures, as the case may
be, believed that the statement was true ;
34 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(ii) as regards every untrue statement purporting
to be a statement by an expert or contained
in what purports to be a copy of or extract
from a report or valuation of an expert, it fairly
represented the statement or was a correct and
fair copy of or extract from the report or
valuation, as the case may be, and he had
reasonable ground to believe and did up to
the time of the issue of the prospectus
believed, that the person making the
statement was competent to make it and that
person had given the consent required under
section 38 to the issue of the prospectus and
had not withdrawn that consent before
delivery of a copy of the prospectus for
registration or to his knowledge, before
allotment thereunder; and
(iii) as regards every untrue statement purporting
to be a statement made by a person in his
official capacity or contained in what purports
to be a copy or extract from a public document
issued officially, it was a correct and fair
representation of the statement or copy or
extract from the document :
Provided that the provisions of this
subsection shall not apply in the case of a
person liable, by reason of his having given
the consent required under section 38, as a
person who has authorised the issue of the
prospectus in respect of an untrue statement
purporting to be made by him as an expert.
(3) A person who apart from the provisions of this
subsection, would under the provisions of subsection (1) be
liable by reason of his having given the consent required
under the provisions of section 38 as a person who has
authorised the issue of a prospectus in respect of an untrue
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 35
statement purporting to be made by him as an expert, shall
not be so liable, if he proves that —
(a) having given his consent under the provisions of
section 38 to the issue of the prospectus, he withdrew
it in writing before delivery of a copy of the
prospectus for registration ;
(b) after delivery of a copy of the prospectus for
registration and before allotment thereunder, he on
becoming aware of the untrue statement withdrew
his consent in writing and gave reasonable public
notice of the withdrawal and of the reason
therefor;or
(c) he was competent to make the statement and that he
had reasonable ground to believe and did up to the
time of the allotment of the shares or debentures, as
the case may be, believed that the statement was
true.
(4) Where—
(a) the prospectus contains the name of a person as a
director of the company or as having agreed to
become a director of such company and he has not
consented to become a director or has withdrawn
his consent before the issue of the prospectus and
has not authorised or consented to the issue of such
prospectus ; or
(b) the consent of a person is required under section 38
to the issue of the prospectus and he either has not
given that consent or has withdrawn it before the
issue of the prospectus,
the directors of the company, except any director without
whose knowledge or consent the prospectus was issued, and
any other person who authorised the issue of such prospectus,
36 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
shall be liable to indemnify the person named under paragraph
(a), or whose consent was required under paragraph (b), as
the case may be, against all damages, costs and expenses to
which he may be made liable by reason of his name having
been inserted in the prospectus or of the inclusion therein of
a statement purporting to be made by him as an expert, as the
case may be, or in defending himself against any action or
legal proceeding brought against him in respect thereof :
Provided that a person shall not be deemed for the purposes
of this subsection to have authorised the issue of a prospectus,
by reason only of his having given the consent required under
section 38 to the inclusion in such prospectus of a statement
purporting to be made by him as an expert.
(5) Every person who, by reason of his being a director or
being named as a director or as having agreed to become a
director or of his having authorised the issue of the prospectus
or of the inclusion in such prospectus of a statement
purporting to be made by him as an expert, becomes liable to
make any payment under this section, may recover
contribution as in cases of contract, from any other person
who, if sued separately, would have been liable to make the
same payment, unless the person who has become so liable
was and that other person was not, guilty of fraudulent
misrepresentation.
(6) For the purposes of this section—
(a) “promoter” means a promoter who was a party to
the preparation of the prospectus or of the portion
thereof containing the untrue statement, but does
not include any person by reason of his acting in a
professional capacity for persons engaged in
procuring the formation of the company ; and
(b) “expert” has the same meaning as in section 38.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 37
42. (1) Where a prospectus issued includes any untrue Criminal liability
statement, any person who authorised the issue of the for untrue
statements in a
prospectus shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on
prospectus.
conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand
rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years
or to both to such fine and imprisonment, unless he proves
either that the statement was immaterial or that he had
reasonable ground to believe and up to the time of the issue
of the prospectus did believe, that the statement was true.
(2) A person shall not be deemed for the purposes of this
section to have authorised the issue of a prospectus by reason
only of his having given the consent required by the
provisions of section 38, to the inclusion in such prospectus
of a statement purporting to be made by him as an expert.
(3) No prosecution shall be instituted in respect of any
offence under the provisions of subsection (1), except with
the sanction of the Attorney-General.
43. (1) Where a company allots or agrees to allot any Document
shares in or debentures of the company with a view to offering containing offer
of shares or
all or any of those shares or debentures for sale to the public,
debentures for
any document by which the offer for sale to the public is sale to be
made shall for all purposes be deemed to be a prospectus deemed a
prospectus.
issued by the company, and provisions of any written law
which relates to the contents of prospectuses, liability in
respect of statements in and omission from prospectuses or
otherwise generally relating to matters dealing with or
connected to prospectuses, shall apply and have effect
accordingly, as if the shares or debentures has been offered to
the public for subscription and as if persons accepting the
offer in respect of any shares or debentures were subscribers
for those shares or debentures, but without prejudice to the
liability, if any, of the persons by whom the offer is made, in
respect of untrue statements contained in the document or
otherwise in respect thereof.
38 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(2) For the purposes of this Act, it shall, unless the contrary
is proved, be deemed that an allotment of or an agreement to
allot shares or debentures was made with a view to the shares
or debentures being offered for sale to the public, if it is
shown—
(a) that an offer of the shares or debentures for sale to
the public was made within six months after the
allotment or agreement to allot ; or
(b) that at the date when the offer was made, the whole
consideration to be received by the company in
respect of the shares or debentures had not been so
received.
(3) The provisions of section 40 shall be applicable in
relation to this section, as though the persons making the
offer were persons named in a prospectus as directors of a
company, and the provisions of section 37 shall be applicable
in relation to this section, as if it required a prospectus to
state, in addition to the matters required by that section to be
stated in a prospectus—
(a) the net amount of the consideration received by the
company in respect of the shares or debentures to
which the offer relates ; and
(b) the place and time at which the contract under which
the said shares or debentures have been or are to be
allotted, may be inspected.
(4) Where a person making an offer to which this section
relates is a company or a firm, it shall be sufficient if the
document aforesaid is signed on behalf of the company or
firm by two directors of the company or not less than half of
the partners, as the case may be, and any such director or
partner may sign through his agent authorised in writing.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 39
44. For purposes of the preceding provisions of this Part Interpretation of
of this Act— provisions
relating to
prospectuses.
(a) a statement included in a prospectus shall be deemed
to be untrue, if it is misleading in the form and
context in which it is included ; and
(b) a statement shall be deemed to be included in a
prospectus, if it is contained in or in any report or
memorandum appearing on the face of, or by
referrence incorporated in, or issued with, such
prospectus.
ALLOTMENT
45. (1) No allotment shall be made of any share capital Prohibition of
of a company offered to the public for subscription, unless allotment unless
minimum
the amount stated in the prospectus as the minimum amount
subscription is
which in the opinion of the directors must be raised by the
received.
issue of share capital in order to provide for the particulars
specified in paragraph 5 of the Fourth Schedule hereto has
been subscribed, and the sum payable on application for the
amount so stated, has been paid to and received by the
company.
For the purposes of this subsection, a sum shall be deemed
to have been paid to and received by the company, if a cheque
for that sum has been received in good faith by the company
and the directors of the company have no reason for suspecting
that the cheque may not be paid.
(2) Where the conditions set out in subsection (1) has not
been complied with within the expiration of sixty days from
the date of closing of the subscription lists, any money
received from applicants for shares shall be forthwith repaid
to them without interest, and if such money is not so repaid
within seventy-five days from the date of closing of the
subscription lists, the directors of the company shall be jointly
40 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
and severally liable to repay that money with interest at the
legal rate, from the expiration of the seventy-fifth day :
Provided that a director shall not be liable if he proves
that the default in the repayment of the money was not due to
any misconduct or negligence on his part.
(3) Any condition requiring or binding any applicant for
shares to waive compliance with any requirement of this
section, shall be void.
(4) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
allotment of shares subsequent to the first allotment of shares
offered to the public for subscription.
46. (1) An allotment made by a company to an applicant
Effect of
irregular in contravention of the provisions of section 45 shall be
allotment. voidable at the instance of the applicant within one month
from the date of the allotment, and shall be so voidable
notwithstanding that the company is in the course of being
wound up.
(2) Where any director of a company knowingly
contravenes or permits or authorizes the contravention of
any of the provisions of section 45, he shall be liable to
compensate the company and the allotee respectively for
any loss, damages, or costs which the company or the allotee
may have sustained or incurred thereby:
Provided that no proceedings to recover any such loss,
damages, or costs shall be commenced after the expiration of
two years from the date of the allotment.
Applications 47. (1) No allotment shall be made of any shares in or
for and debentures of a company in pursuance of a prospectus issued
allotment of generally and no proceedings shall be taken on applications
shares and
made in pursuance of a prospectus so issued, until the
debentures.
commencement of the third day after the date on which the
prospectus is first issued or such later time (if any) as may be
specified in the prospectus, (hereinafter in this Act referred to
as “the time of the opening of the subscription lists”).
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 41
(2) The reference in subsection (1) to the day on which
the prospectus is first issued generally shall be construed as
referring to the date on which it is first issued as a newspaper
advertisement :
Provided that, if it is not issued as a newspaper
advertisement before the third day after the date on which it
is first issued in any other manner, the said reference shall be
construed as referring to the date on which it is first so issued
in such manner.
(3) The validity of an allotment shall not be affected by
any contravention of the preceding provisions of this section
but, in the event of any such contravention—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two
hundred thousand rupees; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees.
(4) In the application of this section to a prospectus offering
shares or debentures for sale, the preceding subsections shall
have effect with the substitution for a reference to allotment
of a reference to sale and for the reference to the company
and every officer of the company who is in default, of a
reference to any person by or through whom the offer is made
and who knowingly and willfully authorises or permits the
contravention.
(5) An application for shares in or debentures of a company
which is made in pursuance of a prospectus issued generally,
shall not be revocable until after the expiration of the third
day from the date of the opening of the subscription lists, or
the giving before the expiration of the said third day, by
some person responsible under the provisions of section 41
for the prospectus, of a public notice having the effect under
that section of excluding or limiting the responsibility of the
person giving it.
42 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(6) In determining for the purposes of this section the
third day after any day, any intervening day which is a bank
holiday or a public holiday shall be disregarded and where
the third day as so determined is itself a bank or a public
holiday, there shall for the said purposes be substituted the
first day thereafter which is not a bank holiday or a public
holiday.
Construction 48. (1) Any reference in this Act to offering of any shares
of reference or debentures to the public shall, subject to any provision to
to offering
the contrary contained therein, be construed as including a
shares or
reference to offering them to any section of the public,
debentures to
the public. whether selected as shareholders or debenture holders of the
company concerned or as clients of the person issuing the
prospectus or in any other manner, and references in this Act
or in a company’s articles to invitations to the public to
subscribe for shares or debentures shall, subject to the
preceding provisions, be similarly construed.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not be taken as
requiring any offer or invitation to be treated as made to the
public, if it can properly be regarded in all the circumstances
as not being calculated to result directly or indirectly, in the
shares or debentures becoming available for subscription or
purchase by persons other than those receiving the offer or
invitation, or otherwise as being a domestic concern of the
persons making and receiving it, and in particular—
(a) a provision in a company’s articles prohibiting
invitation to the public to subscribe for shares or
debentures shall not be taken as prohibiting the
making to members or debenture holders of an
invitation which can properly be regarded as
aforesaid; and
(b) the provisions of this Act relating to private
companies shall be construed accordingly.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 43
NATURE AND TYPES OF SHARES
49. (1) A share in a company shall be movable property. Nature and types
of shares.
(2) Subject to the company’s articles, a share in a company
shall confer on the holder —
(a) the right to one vote on a poll at a meeting of the
company on any resolution;
(b) the right to an equal share in dividends paid by the
company;
(c) the right to an equal share in the distribution of the
surplus assets of the company on liquidation.
(3) A company may issue different classes of shares, and
in particular may issue shares which —
(a) are redeemable;
(b) confer preferential rights to distributions; or
(c) confer special, limited or conditional voting rights
or confer no voting rights.
(4) No share in a company shall have a nominal or par
value
(5) A share in a company is transferable in the manner
provided for by its articles and such articles may limit or
restrict the extent to which a share is transferable.
ISSUE OF SHARES
50. (1) Immediately following the incorporation of a Initial shares.
company under section 5, the company shall issue to each
shareholder named in the application for incorporation, the
shares to which that person is entitled.
44 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(2) Immediately following the issue of a certificate of
amalgamation under section, 244, the amalgamated company
shall issue to each person who is entitled to shares under the
amalgamation proposal, the shares to which that person is
entitled.
Issue of shares. 51. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 52 and 53
and the company’s articles, the board of a company may
issue such shares to such persons as it considers appropriate.
(2) If the shares issued confer rights other than those set
out in subsection (2) of section 49 or impose any obligation
on the holder, the board shall approve terms of issue which
will set out the rights and obligations attached to those shares.
(3) Terms of issue approved by the board under
subsection(2) —
(a) shall be consistent with the articles of the company,
and to the extent that they are not so consistent, are
invalid and of no effect ;
(b) are deemed to form part of the articles, and may be
amended in accordance with section 15.
(4) Within twenty working days of the issue of any shares
under this section, the company shall —
(a) give notice to the Registrar in the prescribed form of—
(i) the number of shares issued;
(ii) the amount of the consideration for which
the shares have been issued or its value as
determined by the board under subsection(2)
of section 58; and
(iii) the amount of the company’s stated capital
following the issue of the shares;
(b) deliver to the Registrar a copy of any terms of issue
approved under subsection (2).
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 45
(5) Where a company fails to comply with requirements
of subsection (4)—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
52. (1) Before issuing any shares, the board shall — Consideration
for issue of
shares.
(a) decide the consideration for which the shares
will be issued; and
(b) resolve that in its opinion that consideration
is fair and reasonable to the company and to
all existing shareholders.
(2) The consideration for which a share is issued may
take any form, including cash, promissory notes, future
services, property of any kind or other securities of the
company.
(3) Upon receipt of the consideration, the company shall
within a period of twenty days, make an allotment of the shares.
53. (1) Subject to the company’s articles, where a Pre-emptive
company issues shares which rank equally with or above rights to new
existing shares in relation to voting or distribution rights, issues.
those shares shall be offered to the holders of existing shares
in a manner which would, if the offer was accepted, maintain
the relative voting and distribution rights of those
shareholders.
(2) An offer which a company is required to make under
subsection (1), shall remain open for acceptance for a
reasonable period of time.
46 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Method of 54. (1) A share is deemed to be issued when the name of
issuing shares. the holder is entered on the share register, and such entry
shall be made prior to compliance with subsection (4) of
section 51.
(2) The issue by a company of a share which imposes a
liability to the company on the holder shall be invalid and of
no effect, until such time as the person to whom it is issued
has consented in writing to become the holder of the share.
CALLS ON SHARES
Calls on shares. 55. (1) Where a call is made on a share or any other
obligation attached to a share and is performed by the
shareholder, the company shall within ten working days give
notice to the Registrar in the prescribed form of—
(a) the amount of the call or its value as determined by
the board under subsection (3) of section 58; and
(b) the amount of the stated capital of the company
following the making of the call.
(2) Where a company fails to comply with the requirement
of subsection (1)—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
DISTRIBUTIONS TO SHAREHOLDERS
Distributions. 56. (1) Before a distribution is made by a company to
any shareholder, such distribution shall —
(a) be authorised by the board under subsection (2);
and
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 47
(b) unless the company’s articles provide otherwise, be
approved by the shareholders by ordinary resolution.
(2) The board of a company may authorise a distribution
at such time and in such amount as it considers appropriate,
where it is satisfied that the company will, immediately after
the distribution is made satisfy the solvency test, provided
that such board obtains a certificate of solvency from the
auditors.
(3) The directors who vote in favour of a distribution
shall sign a certificate setting that in their opinion, the
company will satisfy the solvency test immediately after the
distribution is made.
(4) In applying the solvency test for the purposes of this
section, “debts” includes fixed preferential returns on shares
ranking ahead of those in respect of which a distribution is
made, except where the fixed preferential return is expressed
to be subject to the power of the board to authorise
distributions.
(5) A director who fails to comply with the requirements
of subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand
rupees.
57. (1) A company shall be deemed to have satisfied Solvency test.
the solvency test, if—
(a) it is able to pay its debts as they become due in the
normal course of business; and
(b) the value of the company’s assets is greater than —
(i) the value of its liabilities; and
(ii) the company’s stated capital.
48 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(2) In determining whether a company satisfies the
solvency test, the board—
(a) shall take into account the most recent financial
statements of the company prepared in accordance
with section 151 of the Act ;
(b) shall take into account circumstances the directors
know or ought to know which affect the value of the
company’s assets and liabilities ;
(c) may take into account a fair valuation or other
method of assessing the value of assets and
liabilities.
Stated capital. 58. (1) Subject to section 59, stated capital in relation
to a company means the total of all amounts received by the
company or due and payable to the company —
(a) in respect of the issue of shares; and
(b) in respect of calls on shares.
(2) Where a share is issued for consideration other than
cash, the board shall determine the cash value of such
consideration for the purposes of subsection (1).
(3) Where a share has attached to it an obligation other
than an obligation to pay calls, and that obligation is
performed by the shareholder—
(a) the board shall determine the cash value, if any, of
that performance; and
(b) the cash value of that performance shall be deemed
to be a call which has been paid on the share for the
purposes of subsection (1).
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 49
59. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), a Reduction of
company may by special resolution reduce its stated capital stated capital.
to such amount as it thinks appropriate, in accordance with
the provisions of this Act.
(2) Public notice of a proposed reduction of a company’s
stated capital shall be given not less than sixty days before
the resolution to reduce stated capital is passed.
(3) A company may agree in writing with a creditor of the
company, that it will not reduce its stated capital below a
specified amount without the prior consent of the creditor or
unless specified conditions are satisfied at the time of the
reduction. A resolution to reduce sated capital passed in breach
of any such agreement, shall be invalid and of no effect.
(4) Where —
(a) a share is redeemed at the option of the shareholder
under section 68 or on a fixed date under section
69; or
(b) the company purchases a share under section 95,
and the board is satisfied that as a consequence of the
redemption or purchase, the company would but for this
subsection, fail to satisfy the solvency test—
(c) the board shall after obtaining the auditors
certificate of solvency, resolve that the stated capital
of the company shall be reduced by the amount by
which the company would so fail to satisfy the
solvency test; and
(d) the resolution of the board shall have effect
notwithstanding provisions contained in subsection
(1) to subsection (3) of this section.
(5) A company which has reduced its stated capital shall
within ten working days of such reduction, give notice of the
reduction to the Registrar, specifying the amount of the
reduction and the reduced amount of its stated capital.
50 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(6) Where company fails to comply with requirements of
subsection (2) or subsection (5)—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
Dividends. 60. (1) A dividend is a distribution out of profits of the
company, other than an acquisition by the company of its
own shares or a redemption of shares by the company.
(2) The board of a company shall not authorise a dividend
in respect of some shares in a class and not others of that class
or of a greater amount in respect of some shares in a class than
other shares in that class, except where—
(a) the amount of the dividend is reduced in proportion
to any liability attached to the shares under the
company’s articles; or
(b) a shareholder has agreed in writing to receive no
dividend or a lesser dividend than would otherwise
be payable.
Recovery of 61. (1) A distribution made to a shareholder at a time
distributions. when the company did not, immediately after the distribution,
satisfy the solvency test, may be recovered by the company
from the shareholder, unless—
(a) the shareholder received the distribution in good
faith and without knowledge of the company’s failure
to satisfy the solvency test;
(b) the shareholder has altered his position in relying
on the validity of the distribution; and
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 51
(c) it would be unreasonable in view of the
circumstances to require repayment in full at all.
(2) Where in relation to a distribution to which subsection
(1) applies, the procedure set out in section 56 has not been
followed or reasonable grounds for believing that the
company would satisfy the solvency test did not exist at the
time the certificate was signed, every director who—
(a) failed to take reasonable steps to ensure the
procedure was followed; or
(b) signed the certificate,
as the case may be, shall be personally liable to the company
to repay to the company, so much of the distribution as the
company is not able to recover from the shareholders.
(3) Where in an action brought against a director or a
shareholder under this section, the court is satisfied that the
company could by making a distribution of a lesser amount
have satisfied the solvency test, the court may—
(a) permit the shareholder to retain; or
(b) relive the director from liability in respect of,
an amount equal to the value of any distribution that could
properly have been made.
62. (1) Where a company— Reduction of
shareholder
liability to be a
(a) alters its articles; or
distribution.
(b) acquires shares issued by it or redeems shares under
section 67,
in a manner which cancels or reduces the liability of a
shareholder to the company in relation to a share held prior
to that alteration, acquisition, or redemption, as the case may
52 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
be, the cancellation or reduction of liability shall be treated,
for the purposes of subsection (1) and subsection (3) of section
61, as if it were a distribution of the amount by which the
liability was reduced.
(2) Where the liability of a shareholder of an
amalgamating company to that company in relation to a share
held before the amalgamation, is—
(a) greater than the liability of that shareholder to the
amalgamated company in relation to a share or
shares into which that share is converted; or
(b) cancelled by the cancellation of that share in the
amalgamation,
the reduction of liability effected by the amalgamation shall
be treated for the purposes of subsection (1) and subsection
(3) of section 61, as a distribution by the amalgamated
company to that shareholder of the amount by which that
liability was reduced.
RE-PURCHASE OF SHARES
Company may 63. (1) A company may purchase or otherwise acquire
acquire or any of its own shares —
redeem its own
shares.
(a) under section 64 or section 67;
(b) if the company is a private company, with the
agreement or concurrence of all shareholders under
section 31; or
(c) in accordance with an order made by the court under
this Act,
but not otherwise.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 53
(2) A company may redeem a share which is a redeemable
share, in accordance with the provisions of sections 66 to 69,
but not otherwise.
(3) A share that is acquired or redeemed by the company
shall be deemed to be cancelled immediately upon
acquisition or redemption, as the case may be.
(4) Immediately following the acquisition or redemption
of shares by the company, the company shall give notice to
the Registrar of the number and class of shares acquired or
redeemed, as the case may be.
(5) Where a company fails to comply with
subsection(4)—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
64. (1) A company may agree to purchase or otherwise Purchase of own
acquire its own shares if the articles of such company provide shares.
for it to do so, with the approval of the board.
(2) Before a company offers or agrees to purchase its own
shares, the board of such company shall resolve that —
(a) the acquisition is in the interests of the company;
(b) the terms of the offer or agreement and the
consideration to be paid for the shares is in the
opinion of the company’s auditors a fair value; and
54 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(c) it is not aware of any information that has not been
disclosed to shareholders which is material to an
assessment of the value of the shares, and as a result
of which the terms of an offer or the consideration
offered for the shares are unfair to shareholders
accepting the offer.
(3) Before the company—
(a) makes and offer to acquire shares other than in a
manner which will if it is accepted in full, leave
unaffected the relative voting and distribution rights
of all shareholders; or
(b) agrees to acquire shares other than in a manner which
leaves unaffected the relative voting and distribution
rights of all shareholders,
the board shall resolve that the making of the offer or entry
into the agreement, as the case may be, is fair to those
shareholders to whom the offer is not made or with whom no
agreement is entered into.
Enforceability 65. (1) A contract with a company providing for the
of contract to acquisition by the company of its shares shall be specifically
purchase
enforceable against the company, except to the extent that
shares.
the company would after performing the contract fail to satisfy
the solvency test, and the burden of proving that after the
performance of the contract it would be unable to satisfy the
solvency test, shall be on the company.
(2) Until the company has fully performed a contract
referred to in subsection (1), the other party to the contract
retains the status of a claimant entitled to be paid as soon as
the company is lawfully able to do so or, in the event of a
liquidation, to be ranked subordinate to the rights of creditors,
but in priority to the other shareholders.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 55
REDEMPTION OF SHARES
66. For the purposes of this Act, a share is redeemable if Meaning of
the articles of the company make provision for the redemption “redeemable”.
of that share by the company —
(a) at the option of the company;
(b) at the option of the holder of the share; or
(c) on a date specified in the articles,
for a consideration that is specified or to be calculated by
reference to a formula or required to be fixed by a suitably
qualified person who is not associated with or interested in
the company.
67. (1) A company may exercise an option to redeem a Redemption
share which is redeemable at the option of the company, if option of
company.
the board has previously resolved that the redemption is in
the interest of the company.
(2) A redemption of a share at the option of the company
is deemed to be—
(a) an acquisition by the company of the share, for the
purposes of subsection (3) of section 64; and
(b) a distribution for the pruposes of seciton 56.
68. (1) Where a share is redeemable at the option of the Redemption at
holder of the share and the holder gives proper notice to the the option of the
company requiring the company to redeem the share— shareholder.
(a) the company shall redeem the share on the date
specified in the notice or if no date is specified, on
the date of receipt of the notice;
(b) the share is deemed to be cancelled on the date of
redemption; and
56 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(c) from the date of redemption, the former shareholder
ranks as an unsecured creditor of the company for
the sum payable on redemption.
(2) A redemption under this section is not a distribution
for the purposes of section 56, but is deemed to be a
distribution for the purposes of subsection (1) and subsection
(3) of section 61.
Redemption on 69. (1) Where a share is redeemable on a specified
fixed date. date—
(a) the company shall redeem the share on that date;
(b) the share is deemed to be cancelled on that date;
and
(c) from that date, the former shareholder ranks as an
unsecured creditor of the company for the sum
payable on redemption.
(2) A redemption under this section is not a distribution
for the purposes of section 56, but is deemed to be a
distribution for the purposes of subsection (1) and subsection
(3) of section 61.
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE IN CONNECTION WITH PURCHASE OF SHARES
Restrictions on 70. (1) A company shall not give financial assistance
giving financial directly or indirectly for the purpose of or in connection with
assistance. the acquisition of its own shares, other than in accordance
with this section.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), a
company may give financial assistance for the purpose of or
in connection with the acquisition of its own shares, if the
board has previously resolved that —
(a) giving such assistance is in the interest of the
company;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 57
(b) the terms and conditions on which the assistance is
given are fair and reasonable to the company and to
any share holders not receiving that assistance; and
(c) immediately after giving the assistance, the company
will satisfy the solvency test.
(3) Where the amount of any financial assistance
approved under subsection (2) together with the amount of
any other financial assistance given by the company which
is still outstanding, exceeds ten per centum of the company’s
stated capital, the company shall not give the assistance unless
it first obtains from its auditor or if it does not have an auditor
from a person qualified to act as its auditor, a certificate to the
effect that—
(a) he has inquired into the state of affairs of the
company; and
(b) he is not aware of anything to indicate that the
opinion of the board that the company will,
immediately after giving the assistance satisfy the
solvency test, is unreasonable in all the
circumstances.
(4) The giving of financial assistance under this section
is not a distribution for the purposes of section 56.
(5) Where a company acts in contravention of the
provisions of this section, every officer of the company who
is in default shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding one million rupees or to a
term of imprisonment not exceeding five years or to both
such imprisonment and fine.
71. (1) The provisions of section 70 shall not apply to Transactions not
the giving of financial assistance by a company for the prohibited by
purpose of or in connection with the acquisition of its own section 70.
shares, if—
(a) the company’s principal purpose in giving the
assistance is not to give it for the purpose of that
58 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
acquisition or the giving of the assistance is an
incidental part of any other larger purpose of the
company; and
(b) the assistance is given in good faith in the interest
of the company.
(2) The provisions of section 70 shall also not apply in
respect of—
(a) a distribution to a shareholder approved under
section 56;
(b) the issue of shares by the company;
(c) a repurchase or redemption of shares by the
company;
(d) anything done in terms of a compromise reached
under the provisions of Part IX or a compromise or
arrangement approved under the provisions of
PartX;
(e) the lending of money by a company in the
ordinary course of business, where the ordinary
business of the company includes the lending of
money;
(f) the provision by a company in good faith in the
interest of the company, of financial assistance for
the purposes of an employees’ share scheme;
(g) the granting of loans by a company to its employees
other than directors in good faith in the interest of
the company, with a view to enabling those persons
to acquire beneficial ownership of shares in the
company.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 59
CROSS-HOLDINGS
72. (1) A company which is a subsidiary of another Restriction on
company (referred to in this section as the “holding subsidiary
company”)— holding shares in
holding
company.
(a) shall not acquire shares in the holding company;
(b) may continue to hold any shares in the holding
company acquired by the subsidiary before it
became a subsidiary of the holding company, but
may not exercise any right to vote which is attached
to those shares.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall apply to a company
which —
(a) holds shares in the holding company only as a
trustee or legal representative and has no beneficial
interest in the shares; or
(b) holds an interest in shares in the holding company
by way of security for the purposes of a transaction
entered into by it in the ordinary course of business
and on usual terms and conditions.
(3) Where a body corporate—
(a) became a holder of shares in the holding company
before the commencement of this Act, it may
continue to be a member of that company, but it has
no right to vote in respect of those shares at any
meetings of the company; and
(b) is permitted to continue as a member of the holding
company by virtue of paragraph (b) of subsection
(1) and paragraph (a) of this subsection, an allotment
of fully paid shares in the company may be validly
made by way of capitalisation of reserves of the
company, which shares also will have no right to
vote.
60 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(4) The provisions of subsections (1), (2) and (3) shall
apply in relation to a nominee for a company which is a
subsidiary, as if a reference to the company were a reference
to the nominee.
TRANSFER OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES, EVIDENCE OF TITLE &C .
73. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Transfer not to
be registered articles of a company, it shall not be lawful for the company
except on to register a transfer of shares in or debentures of the company,
production of unless a proper instrument of transfer has been delivered to
instrument of
the company:
transfer.
Provided that, nothing in this section shall affect any power
of the company to register as shareholder or debenture holder,
any person to whom the right of any shares in or debentures
of the company has been transmitted by operation of law.
Transfer by 74. A transfer of the shares or other interests of a deceased
legal shareholder of a company made by his legal representative
representative. shall, although the legal representative is not himself a
shareholder of the company, be as valid as if he had been
such a shareholder at the time of the execution of the
instrument of transfer.
Registration of 75. On the application of the transferor of any share or
transfer at the other interest in a company, the company shall enter in its
request of share register the name of the transferee in the same manner
transferor. and subject to the same conditions, as if the application for
the entry were made by the transferee.
Notice of refusal 76. (1) Where a company refuses to register a transfer of
to register any shares or debentures, the company shall within two
transfer. months from the date on which the transfer was lodged with
the company, send to the transferee a notice of such refusal.
(2) Where a company fails to comply with the provisions
of subsection (1)—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees; and
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 61
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
77. (1) The certification by a company of any instrument Certification of
of transfer of shares in or debentures of the company shall be transfers.
taken as a representation by the company to any person acting
on the faith of such certification, that there have been
produced to the company such documents as on the face of
there show a prima facie title to the shares or debters in the
transferor named in the instrument of transfer, but not as a
representation that the transferor has any title to the shares or
debentures.
(2) Where any person acts on the faith of a false
certification made by a company negligently, the company
shall be under the same liability to him as if the certification
had been made fraudulently.
(3) For the purposes of this section —
(a) an instrument of transfer shall be deemed to be
certified if it bears the words “certificate lodged” or
words to the like effect;
(b) the certification of an instrument of transfer shall be
deemed to be made by a company, where —
(i) the person issuing the instrument is a person
authorised to issue certificated instruments of
transfer on the company’s behalf; and
(ii) the certification is signed by a person authorised
to certify transfers on the company’s behalf or
by an officer or servant either of the company
or of a body corporate so authorised ;
(c) a certification shall be deemed to be signed by any
person where —
(i) it purports to be authenticated by his signature
or initials, whether handwritten or not; and
62 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(ii) it is not shown that the signature or initials
was or were placed there neither by himself
nor by any person authorised to use the
signature or initials for the purpose of
certifying transfers on the company’s behalf.
Duties of 78. (1) Every company shall within two months from
company with the date of allotment of any of its shares, debentures or
respect to issue debenture stock and within two months from the date on
of certificates.
which a transfer of any such shares, debentures or debenture
stock, is lodged with the company, complete and have ready
for delivery the certification of all shares, the debentures,
and the certificates of all debenture stock allotted or
transferred, unless the conditions of issue of the shares,
debentures, or debenture stock provide otherwise.
For the purposes of this subsection the expression
“transfer” means a transfer duly stamped and otherwise valid
and does not include a transfer which the company is for any
reason entitled to refuse to register and does not register.
(2) Where a company fails to comply with the requirements
of subsection (1)—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
(3) Where any company on whom a notice has been served
requiring the company to make good any default in
complying with the provisions of subsection (1), fails to make
good the default within ten days from the date of service of
the notice, the court may on the application of the person
entitled to have the certificates or the debentures delivered
to him, make an order directing the company and any officer
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 63
of the company, to make good the default within such time as
may be specified in the order and any such order may provide
that all costs of and incidental to the application shall be
borne by the company or any officer of the company
responsible for the default.
79. A certificate signed under the name of the company Certificate to be
by a director and secretary of the company specifying any evidence of title.
shares held by any shareholder, shall be prima facie evidence
of the title of the shareholder to the shares.
80. The production to a company of any document which Evidence of
by law is sufficient evidence of probate of a will or of letters grant of probate,
of administration of the estate or confirmation as executor of &c.
a deceased person having been granted to some person, shall
be accepted by the company notwithstanding anything in its
articles, as sufficient evidence of the grant.
SPECIAL PROVISIONS AS TO DEBENTURES
81. (1) Every company which has issued debentures Right of
shall maintain a register of holders of debentures of the debenture
company. The register shall, except when duly closed (but holders and
shareholders to
subject to such reasonable restrictions the company may
inspect register
impose at a general meeting so that not less than two hours in of debenture
each day shall be allowed for inspection), be opened for the holders and to
inspection by the registered holder of any such debentures or have copies of
any trust deed.
any holder of shares in the company without a fee, and by
any other person on payment of a fee of ten rupees or such
lesser sum as may be specified by the company.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a register shall be
deemed to be duly closed if closed in accordance with the
provisions contained in the company’s articles or in the
debentures, or in the case of debenture stock, in the stock
certificates or in the trust deed or other document securing
the debentures or debenture stock, during such period or
periods not exceeding in the whole thirty days in any year, as
may be therein specified.
64 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(3) Any registered holder of the debentures or holder of
shares as aforesaid or any other person, may require a copy of
the register of the holders of debentures of the company or
any part thereof to be furnished on payment of a sum not
exceeding ten rupees for every page required to be copied.
(4) A copy of any trust deed for securing an issue of
debentures shall be forwarded to every holder of any such
debentures at his request, on payment in the case of a printed
trust deed of the sum of ten rupees or such lesser sum as may
be specified by the company, or where the trust deed has not
been printed, on payment of a sum not exceeding one rupee
for every hundred words required to be copied.
(5) Where inspection of the register is refused or a copy
as aforesaid is refused or not forwarded—
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
(6) Where a company is in default as referred to in
subsection (5), the court may also by order compel an
immediate inspection of the register or direct that any copy
required as aforesaid shall be sent to the person requiring
them.
Directors 82. A director of a company shall not be capable of being
prohibited from appointed as a trustee for the holders of debentures of the
acting as company:
trustees.
Provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply
to any director of a company who holds office as a trustee for
the holders of debentures of the company, by virtue of an
appointment made on or before July 2, 1982, and accordingly
any such director may continue in office as trustee until the
termination of that appointment.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 65
83. A condition contained in any debentures or in any Perpetual
deed for securing any debentures whether issued or executed debentures.
before or after the appointed date, shall not be invalid by
reason only of the fact that the debentures are thereby made
irredeemable or redeemable only on the happening of a
contingency, however remote, or on the expiration of the
period, however long.
84. (1) Where a company has redeemed any debentures Power to reissue
previously issued, then— redeemed
debentures in
certain cases.
(a) unless any provision to the contrary, whether express
or implied, is contained in the company’s articles or
in any contract entered into by the company; or
(b) unless the company has by passing a resolution to
that effect or by some other act, manifested its
intention that the debentures shall be cancelled,
the company shall have and shall be deemed always to have
had, power to reissue the debentures, either by reissuing the
same debentures or by issuing other debentures in their place.
(2) On a reissue of redeemed debentures, the person
entitled to the debentures shall have and shall be deemed
always to have had the same priorites as if the debentures had
never been redeemed.
(3) Where a company has deposited any of its debentures
to secure advances from time to time on current account or
otherwise, the debentures shall not be deemed to have been
redeemed by reason only of the account of the company
having ceased to be in debit, whilst the debentures remained
so deposited.
(4) The reissue of a debenture or the issue of another
denenture in its place under the power by this section given
to or deemed to have been possessed by a company, shall be
treated as the issue of a new debenture for the purposes of
66 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
stamp duty. But it shall not be so treated for the purposes of
any provision limiting the amount or number of debentures
to be issued :
Provided that any person lending money on the security
of a debenture reissued under the provisions of this section
which appears to be duly stamped, may give the debenture in
evidence in any proceedings for enforcing his security
without payment of the stamp duty or any penalty in respect
thereof, unless he had notice or but for his negligence might
have discovered, that the debenture was not duly stamped. In
any such case the company shall be liable to pay the proper
stamp duty and penalty.
(5) The re-issue after the appointed date of debentures
redeemed before that date, shall not prejudice any right or
priority wihch any person would have had under or by virtue
of any mortgage or charge created before that date.
Specific 85. A contract with a company to take up and pay for
performance of any debentures of the company may be enforced by an order
contracts to
for specific performance.
subscribe for
debentures.
PART V
SHAREHOLDERS AND THEIR RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
Meaning of 86. (1) In this Act, the term “shareholder” means—
“shareholder”.
(a) a person whose name is entered in the share register
as the holder for the time being of one or more shares
in the company ;
(b) until a person’s name is entered in the share register,
a person named as a shareholder in an application
for incorporation of a company at the time of
registration of the company ;
