458 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(k) do all such things (including the carrying out of works) as
may be necessary for the realisation of the property of the
company;
(l) make any payment which is necessary or incidental to the
exercise of his functions;
(m) effect and maintain insurances in respect of the business
and property of the company;
(n) carry on the business of the company;
(o) establish subsidiaries of the company;
(p) transfer to subsidiaries of the company the whole or any
part of the business and property of the company;
(q) grant or accept a surrender of a lease or tenancy of any
property of the company and to take a lease or tenancy of
any property required or convenient for the business of
the company;
(r) make any arrangement or compromise on behalf of the
company;
(s) rank and claim in the bankruptcy, insolvency, sequestration
or liquidation of any person indebted to the company and
to receive dividends and to accede to trust deeds for the
creditors of any such person;
(t) apply for the appointment of a liquidator of the company;
(u) do all other things incidental to the exercise of the powers
set out in this paragraph.
THIRTEENTH SCHEDULE [Section 497 (1)]
LIQUIDATION OF ASSETS OF OVERSEAS COMPANIES
1. Part XII shall apply to the winding up of the assets in Sri Lanka
of an overseas company with all necessary modifications and
exclusions, and in particular the following :—
(a) references to assets shall be taken as references to assets in
Sri Lanka;
(b) references to a company shall be taken as including
references to an overseas company;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 459
(c) references to dissolution shall be taken as references to
ceasing to carry on business in Sri Lanka;
(d) the following provisions shall not apply to such a winding
up:—
(i) paragraphs (b) and (c) of subsection (1) of section
267;
(ii) sections 268, 269, 316, 319 to 355 (both inclusive),
393, 394 and 395;
(e) from the commencement of the winding up, the overseas
company and its directors shall cease to have any powers,
functions and duties in relation to the company’s assets in
Sri Lanka, other than those required or permitted to be
exercised under Part XII.
2. Nothing contained in this Act shall exclude or affect the right of
a creditor of an overseas company in relation to the assets of
which a liquidator has been appointed—
(a) to bring proceedings outside Sri Lanka against the overseas
company, in relation to a debt not claimed in the liquidation
or the balance of a debt remaining unpaid after the
completion of the liquidation; or
(b) to bring proceedings in Sri Lanka in relation to the balance
of a debt remaining unpaid after the completion of the
liquidation.
460 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNM ENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS
HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
