Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 215
264. (1) An off-shore company shall have power to carry Prohibition on
on any business outside Sri Lanka; but shall not be entitled carrying on
business in Sri
to carry on any business within Sri Lanka.
Lanka.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall preclude an off-shore
company securing in Sri Lanka any benefits or advantages
available under any written law which may be applicable to
it.
265. An off-shore company may cease carrying on
Cessation of
business as an off-shore company by giving notice to the business as an
Registrar in the prescribed form of its intention to do so. off-shore
company.
PART XII
WINDING UP
(1) PRELIMINARY
Modes of winding up
266. In this Part of this Act, the expression “contributory” Definition of
means every shareholder of the company and every other contributory.
person liable to contribute to the assets of a company in the
event of its being wound up, and for the purposes of all
proceedings for determining and all proceedings prior to the
final determination of, the persons who are to be deemed
contributories and includes any person alleged to be a
contributory.
267. (1) The winding up of a company may be either — Modes of
winding up.
(a) by the court;
(b) voluntary; or
(c) subject to the supervision of the court.
(2) The provisions of this Act with respect to winding up
shall apply unless the contrary appears, to the winding up of
a company in any manner set out in subsection (1).
216 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
CONTRIBUTORIES
Power of 268. (1) The liquidator may—
liquidator to
enforce liability
(a) if a shareholder is liable to calls, make calls on the
of share holders
shares held by that shareholder;
and former
shareholders.
(b) if a shareholder or former shareholder is otherwise
liable to the company, enforce that liability.
(2) A call under paragraph (a) of subsection (1) shall be
make in writing.
269. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), if a
Liability of
former shareholder of a company in liquidation fails to pay any
shareholders for amount due in respect of a share, that amount shall be payable
unpaid calls. by and may be recovered by the liquidator from any other
person who was registered as the holder of the share at any
time, within—
(a) the period of one year before the commencement of
the liquidation; or
(b) in the case of a company that was put into
liquidation by the court, the period of one year
before the making of the application to the court
together with the period commencing on the date of
the making of that application and ending on the
date on which the order of the court was made.
(2) A former shareholder shall not be liable under
subsection (1), if at all times that he was registered as the
holder of the share during the period referred to in subsection
(1), the company was able to pay its debts as they fell due.
(3) Where the liability attached to a share has increased
after the time at which the former shareholder was registered
as the holder of the share, he shall be liable only for the
amount of any liability attached to the share at the time at
which it was held by him.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 217
(II) WINDING UP BY THE COURT
CASES IN WHICH COMPANY MAY BE WOUND UP BY THE COURT
270. A company may be wound up by the court, if— Circumstance in
which a
(a) the company has by special resolution resolved that company may be
wound up by the
the company be wound up by the court;
court.
(b) the company does not commence its business within
a year from its incorporation or suspends it business
for one year;
(c) if the number of the members falls below the
minimum number required under subsection (2) of
section 4 of this Act;
(d) the company has no directors;
(e) the company is unable to pay its debts; or
(f) the court is of opinion that it is just and equitable
that the company should be wound up.
271. A company shall be deemed to be unable to pay its Definition of
debts where— inability to pay
debts.
(a) a creditor by assignment or otherwise, to whom the
company is indebted in a sum exceeding fifty
thousand rupees then due, has served on the
company by leaving it at the registered office of the
company, a demand under his hand requiring the
company to pay the sum so due and the company
has for three weeks from the date of so leaving,
neglected to pay the sum or to secure or compound
for it to the reasonable satisfaction of the creditor;
(b) execution or other process issued on a judgment,
decree or order of any court in favour of a creditor of
the company, is returned unsatisfied in whole or in
part; or
218 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(c) it is proved to the satisfaction of the court that the
company is unable to pay its debts, and in
determining whether a company is unable to pay its
debts, the court shall take into account the
contingent and prospective liabilities of the
company.
PETITION FOR WINDING UP AND EFFECTS THEREOF
Application for 272. (1) An application to the court for the winding up
winding up. of a company shall be by petition presented subject to the
provisions of this section, either by the company or by any
creditor or creditors (including any contingent or prospective
creditor or creditors), contributory or contributories, or by all
or any of those parties, jointly or separately:
Provided that—
(a) a contributory shall not be entitled to present a
winding-up petition unless—
(i) the number of members falls below the
minimum number required under subsection
(2) of section 4 of this Act ; or
(ii) the shares in respect of which he is a
contributory or some of them, either were
originally allotted to him or have been held
by him and registered in his name, for at least
six months during the eighteen months
immediately preceding the date of
commencement of the winding up or have
devolved on him through the death of a
former holder ;
(b) the court shall not give a hearing to a winding-up
petition presented by a contingent or prospective
creditor until such security for costs has been given
as the court thinks reasonable, and until a prima
facie case for winding up has been established to
the satisfaction of the court ; and
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 219
(c) the Registrar may present a winding-up petition in
the case of a company referred to in subsection (3)
of section 177.
(2) Where a company is being wound up voluntarily or
subject to supervision, a winding-up petition may be
presented by the official receiver attached to the court as
well as by any other person authorised in that behalf under
the provisions of this section, but the court shall not make a
winding up order on the petition, unless it is satisfied that the
voluntary winding up or winding up subject to supervision
cannot be continued with due regard to the interests of the
creditors or contributories.
273. (1) On hearing a winding-up prtition, the court Powers of court
may dismiss it or adjourn the hearing conditionally or on hearing
unconditionally or make any interim order or any other order petition.
that it thinks fit, but the court shall not refuse to make a
winding up order on the ground that the assets of the company
have been mortgaged to an amount equal to or in excess of
those assets, or that the company has no assets.
(2) Where a winding-up petition is presented by
shareholders of the company as contributories on the ground
that it is just and equitable that the company should be wound
up, the court shall where it is of opinion that—
(a) the petitioners are entitled to relief either by
winding-up the company or by some other means ;
and
(b) in the absence of any other remedy it would be just
and equitable that the company should be wound
up,
make a winding-up order, unless it is of the opinion that
some other remedy is available to the petitioners and that
they are acting unreasonably in seeking to have the company
wound up instead of pursuing that other remedy.
220 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Power to stay or 274. At any time after the presentation of a winding-up
restrain petition, and before a winding-up order has been made, the
proceedings
company or any creditor or contributory may-
against a
company.
(a) where any action or proceeding against the company
is pending in any court in Sri Lanka, make an
application to the court in which such action or
proceeding is pending for a stay of proceedings
therein ; and
(b) where any other action or proceeding is pending
against the company, make an application to the
court having jurisdiction to wind up the company,
to restrain further peoceedings in such action or
proceeding, and the court to which application is so
made may, as the case may be, stay or restrain the
proceedings accordingly on such terms as it thinks
fit.
Avoidance of 275. In a winding up by the court, any disposition of the
disposition of property of the company, including things in action and any
property &c.
transfer of shares or alteration in the status of the members of
after
commencement the company made after the commencement of the winding
of winding-up. up, shall unless the court otherwise orders, be void.
Avoidance of 276. (1) Where any company is being wound up by the
attachments &c. court, subject to the provisions of subsection (2) any
attachment, sequestration, or execution put in force against
the estate or effects of the company after the time of the
presentation of the petition for the winding up, shall be void
to all intents.
(2) Nothing in this section shall apply to an execution
process or attachment against any property by or for the
benefit of a creditor, who is entitled to a charge in respect of
that property.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 221
COMMENCEMENT OF WINDING UP
277. (1) Where before the presentation of a petition for Commencement
the winding up of a company by the court, a resolution has of winding up
by the court.
been passed by the company for voluntary winding up, the
winding up of the company shall be deemed to have
commenced at the time of the passing of the resolution and
unless the court, on proof of fraud or mistake thinks fit
otherwise to direct, all proceedings taken in the voluntary
winding up shall be deemed to have been validly taken.
(2) In any other case, the winding up of a company by the
court shall be deemed to commence at the time of the
presentation of the petition for the winding up.
CONSEQUENCES OF WINDING UP ORDER
278. On the making of a winding up order, a copy of the Copy of order to
order shall forthwith be forwarded by the company or be forwarded to
otherwise as may be prescribed, to the Registrar who shall Registrar.
make a minute thereof in his books relating to the company.
279. (1) When a winding up order has been made or a Actions stayed
provisional liquidator has been appointed, subject to the on winding up.
provisions of subsection (2), no action or proceeding shall
be proceeded with or commenced against the company except
by leave of the court, and subject to such terms as the court
may impose.
(2) Nothing in this section shall apply to an execution
process or attachment against any property by or for the
benefit of a creditor, who is entitled to a charge in respect of
that property.
280. An order for winding up a company shall operate Effect of
in favour of all the creditors and of all the contributories of winding up
the company, as if made on the joint petition of a creditor and order.
of a contributory.
222 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
OFFICIAL RECEIVER IN WINDING UP
Official 281. For the purposes of this Act, the expression “official
receiver. receiver” so far as it relates to the winding up of a company
by the court, means the official receiver if any, attached to
the court for insolvency purposes, or if there is no such official
receiver so attached, such person as the Minister may appoint
as official receiver to that court.
Appointment 282. If in the case of the winding up of any company by
of official court it appears to the court desirable with a view to securing
receiver by
a more convenient and economical conduct of such winding
court in
up, that some officer, other than the person who would by
certain cases.
virtue of the provisions of section 281 be the official receiver
should be the official receiver for the purposes of that winding
up, the court may appoint that other officer to act as official
receiver in that winding up, and the person so appointed
shall be deemed to be the official receiver in that winding up
for all purposes of this Act.
Statement of 283. (1) Where the court has made a winding up order
company’s or appointed a provisional liquidator, there shall, unless the
affairs to be court thinks fit to order otherwise and so orders, be made out
submitted to
and submitted to the official receiver a statement in the
official
prescribed form of the affairs of the company, verified by
receiver.
affidavit and showing the particulars of its assets, debts and
liabilities, the names, residences and occupations of its
creditors, the securities held by them respectively, the dates
when the securites were respectively given and such further
or other information as may be prescribed or as the official
receiver may require.
(2) The statement referred to in subsection (1) shall be
submitted and verified by one or more of the persons who are
at the relevant date the directors and by the person who is at
that date the secretary of the company or by such of the
persons referred to below, who may be appointed by court as
the official receiver, subject to the direction of the court —
(a) who are or have been officers of the company ;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 223
(b) who have taken part in the formation of the company
at any time within one year before the relevant date;
(c) who are in the employment of the company or have
been in the employment of the company within the
said year and are in the opinion of the official
receiver, capable of giving the information required;
(d) who are or have been within the said year officers of
or in the employment of a company which is or
within the said year was, an officer of the company
to which the statement relates.
(3) The statement referred to in subsection (1) shall be
submitted within fourteen days from the relevant date, or
within such extended time as the official receiver or the court
may, for special reasons appoint.
(4) Any person making or concurring in making the
statement and affidavit required by the provisions of this
section, shall be allowed and shall be paid by the official
receiver or provisional liquidator, as the case may be, out of
assets of the company, such costs and expenses incurred in
and about the preparation and making of the statement and
affidavit as the official receiver may consider reasonable,
subject to an appeal to the court.
(5) Where any person without reasonable excuse fails to
comply with the requirements of this section, he shall be
guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding two hundred thousand rupees.
(6) Any person claiming in writing to be a creditor or
contributory of the company shall be entitled by himself or
by his agent at all reasonable times, on payment of the
prescribed fee to inspect the statement submitted in pursuance
of the provisions of this section and to a copy of or extract
from such statement.
224 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(7) Any person claiming to be a creditor or contributory
knowing it to be false shall be guilty of a contempt of court
and shall on the application of the liquidator or of the official
receiver, be punishable for such contempt.
(8) In this section the expression “the relevant date”
means, in a case where a provisional liquidator is appointed,
the date of his appointment and in case where no such
appointment is made, the date of the winding up order.
Report by 284. (1) In any case where a windingup order is made,
official receiver. the official receiver shall, as soon as practicable after receipt
of the statement to be submitted under the provisions of
section 283 or in any case where the court orders that no such
statement shall be submitted, as soon as practicable after the
date of the order, submit a preliminary report to the court—
(a) as to the number and types of shares issued, the
stated capital and the estimated amount of assets
and liabilities ;
(b) where the company has failed, as to the causes of
the failure ; and
(c) whether in his opinion further inquiry is desirable
as to any matter relating to the promotion,
formation, or failure of the company or the conduct
of the business thereof.
(2) The official receiver may also if he thinks fit, make a
further report or further reports stating the manner in which
the company was formed and whether in his opinion any
fraud has been committed by any person in its promotion or
formation or by any officer of the company in relation to the
company since the formation of such company, and any other
matters which in his opinion it is desirable to bring to the
notice of the court.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 225
(3) Where the official receiver states in any such further
report as is referred to in subsection (2) that in his opinion a
fraud has been committed, the court shall exercise the powers
set out in section 311 in dealing with such report.
LIQUIDATORS
285. For the purposes of conducting the proceedings in Power of court
winding up a company and performing such duties in reference to appoint
thereto as the court may impose, the court may appoint a liquidators.
liquidator or liquidators.
286. (1) The court may appoint a liquidator Appointment
provisionally at any time after the presentation of a winding and powers of
provisional
up petition and before the making of a winding up order and
liquidator.
either the official receiver or any other fit person, may be so
appointed.
(2) Where a liquidator is provisionally appointed by the
court, the court may limit and restrict his powers by the order
appointing him.
287. The following provisions with respect to liquidators Appointment
shall have affact on a winding up order being made— style, &c. of
liquidators.
(a) the official receiver shall by virtue of his office
become the provisional liquidator and shall continue
to act as such until he or another person becomes
liquidator and is capable of acting as such ;
(b) the official receiver shall summon separate meetings
of the creditors and contributories of the company,
for the purposes of determining whether or not an
application is to be made to the court for appointing
a liquidator in place of the official receiver ;
(c) the court may make any appointment and make any
order required to give effect to any such
determination, and if there is a difference between
226 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
the determinations of the meetings of the creditors
and contributories in respect of the matter aforesaid,
the court shall decide the difference and make such
order thereon as the court may think fit ;
(d) in a case where the liquidator is not appointed by
the court, the official receiver shall be the liquidator
of the company ;
(e) the official receiver shall by virtue of his office be
the liquidator during any vacancy in the office of
liquidator ;
(f) a liquidator shall be described where a person other
than the official receiver is the liquidator, by the
style of “the liquidator”, and where the official
receiver is liquidator, by the style of “the official
receiver and liquidator” of the particular company
in respect of which he is appointed and not by his
individual name.
Provisions where 288. Where in the winding up of a company by the court,
person other a person other than the official receiver is appointed
than official
liquidator, that person—
receiver is
appointed a
liquidator. (a) shall not be capable of acting as liquidator until he
has been notified of such appointment and given
security in the prescribed manner to the Registrar ;
(b) shall give the official receiver such information and
such access to and facilities for inspecting the books
and documents of the company, and generally such
aid as may be required for enabling that officer to
perform his duties under this Act.
General 289. (1) A liquidator appointed by the court may resign
provisions as to or on cause shown, be removed by the court.
liquidators.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 227
(2) Where a person other than the official receiver is
appointed liquidator, he shall receive such salary or
remuneration by way of percentage or otherwise as the court
may direct, and where more than one such persons are
appointed liquidators, their remuneration shall be distributed
among them in such proportions as the court directs.
(3) A vacancy in the office of a liquidator appointed by
the court shall be filled by the court.
(4) Where more than one liquidator is appointed by the
court, the court shall declare whether any act required or
authorised to be done under the provisions of this Act by the
liquidator, is to be done by all or any one or more of the
persons so appointed.
(5) No act of a liquidator shall be or shall be deemed to be
invalid by reason only of any defect in the appointment or
qualification of such liquidator.
290. Where a windingup order has been made or where Custody of
a provisional liquidator has been appointed, the liquidator company’s
or the provisional liquidator, as the case may be, shall take property.
into his custody or under his control all the property and
things in action to which the company is or appears to be
entitled.
291. Where a company is being wound up by the court, Vesting of
the court may on the application of the liquidator by order property of
direct that that all or any part of the property of whatever company in
liquidator.
description belonging to the company or held by trustees on
its behalf, shall vest in the liquidator by his official name,
and thereupon the property to which the order relates shall
vest accordingly and the liquidator may, after giving such
indemnity, if any, as the court may direct, bring or defend in
his official name any action or other legal proceedings which
relates to that property or which it is necessary to bring or
defend for the purpose of effectually winding up the company
and recovering its property.
228 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Powers of 292. (1) The liquidator in a winding up by the court
liquidator. shall have power, with the sanction either of the court or of
the committee of inspection—
(a) to bring or defend any action or other legal
proceeding in the name and on behalf of the
company ;
(b) to carry on the business of the company so far as
may be necessary for the beneficial winding up of
such company ;
(c) to appoint an attorney-at-law to assist him in the
performance of his duties ;
(d) to pay any classes of creditors in full ;
(e) to make any compromise or arrangement with
creditors or persons claiming to be creditors or
having or alleging themselves to have any claim,
present or future, certain or contingent, ascertained
or sounding only in damages against the company
or whereby the company may be rendered liable ;
(f) to compromise all calls and liabilities to calls, debts,
and liabilities capable of resulting in debts and all
claims, present or future, certain or contingent,
ascertained or sounding only in damages, subsisting
or alleged to subsist between the company and a
contributory or alleged contributory or other debtor
or person apprehending liability to the company,
and all questions in any way relating to or affecting
the assets or the winding up of the company, on
such terms as may be agreed and take any security
for the discharge of any such call, debt, liability or
claim and give a complete discharge in respect
thereof.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 229
(2) The liquidator in a winding up by the court shall have
power—
(a) to sell the movable and immovable property and
things in action of the company by public auction
or private contract, with power to transfer the whole
thereof to any person or company or to sell the same
in parcels;
(b) to do all acts and to execute in the name and on
behalf of the company, all deeds, receipts, and other
documents and for that purpose to use when
necessary, the seal of the company, if any ;
(c) to prove, rank and claim in the bankruptcy,
insolvency or sequestration of any contributory for
any balance against his estate, and to receive
dividends in the bankruptcy, insolvency or
sequsetration in respect of that balance as a separate
debt due from the bankrupt or insolvent, and rateably
with the other seperate creditors ;
(d) to draw, accept, make and endorse any bills of
exchange or promissory note or like instruments in
the name and on behalf of the company, with the
same effect with respect to the liability of the company
as if the bill or note or such instrument had been
drawn, accepted, made, or endorsed by or on behalf
of the company in the course of its business;
(e) to raise on the security of the assets of the company
any money required ;
(f) to take out in his official name letters of
administration to any deceased contributory, and to
do in his official name any other act necessary for
obtaining payment of any money due from a
contributory or his estate which cannot be
conveniently done in the name of the company, and
230 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
in all such cases the money due shall, for the purpose
of enabling the liquidator to take out the letters of
administration or recover the money, be deemed to
be due to the liquidator himself :
Provided that nothing herein empowered shall
be deemed to affect the rights, duties, and privileges
of the Public Trustee appointed under the Public
Trustee Ordinance (Cap. 88) ;
(g) to appoint an agent to do any business on behalf of
such liquidator ;
(h) to do all such other things as may be necessary for
windingup the affairs of the company and
distributing its assets.
(3) The exercise by the liquidator in a winding up by the
court of the powers conferred by the provisions of this section,
shall be subject to the control of the court and any creditor or
contributory may make an application to the court for the
exercise or proposed exercise of any of those powers.
Exercise and 293. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
control of liquidator of a company which is being wound up by the
liquidator’s
court shall, in the administration of the assets of the company
powers.
and in the distribution thereof among its creditors, have regard
to any directions that may be given by resolution of creditors
or contributories at any general meeting or by the committee
of inspection, and any directions given by the creditors or
contributories at any general meeting shall in case of conflict,
be deemed to prevail over any directions given by the
committee of inspection.
(2) The liquidator may summon general meetings of the
creditors or contributories for the purpose of ascertaining
their wishes, and it shall be his duty to summon meetings at
such times as the creditors or contributories, by resolution,
either at the meeting appointing the liquidator or otherwise
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 231
may direct, or whenever requested in writing to do so by one-
tenth of the total number of creditors or contributories, as the
case may be.
(3) The liquidator may make an application to court in
the prescribed manner for directions in relation to any
particular matter arising under the winding up.
(4) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the liquidator
shall use his own discretion in the management of the estate
and its distribution among the creditors.
(5) Where any person is aggrieved by any act or decision
of the liquidator, that person may appeal to the court against
such act or decision, and the court may confirm, reverse, or
modify the act or decision complained of and make such
order as it thinks just.
294. Every liquidator of a company which is being Books to be kept
wound up by the court shall keep in the prescribed manner, by liquidators.
proper books in which he shall cause to be made entries or
minutes of proceedings at meetings and of such other matters
as may be prescribed, and any creditor or contributory may
subject to the control of the court, personally or by his agent
inspect any such books.
295. (1) Every liquidator of a company which is being Payments by
wound up by the court shall pay the money received by him liquidator into
into an account or accounts established for the purpose at bank.
one or more licenced commercial banks.
(2) A liquidator of a company which is being wound up
by the court shall not pay any sums received by him as
liquidator into his private banking account.
296. (1) Every liquidator of a company which is being Audit of
wound up by the court shall, at such times as may be liquidator’s
prescribed but not less than twice in each year during his accounts.
tenure of office, send to the Registrar an account of his receipts
and payments as liquidator.
232 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(2) The account shall be in the prescribed form, shall be
made in duplicate and shall be certified by a statutory
declaration in the prescribed form.
(3) The Registrar shall cause the account to be audited
and for the purpose of the audit the liquidator shall furnish
the Registrar with such vouchers and information as the
Registrar may require and the Registrar may at any time
require the production of and inspect any books or accounts
kept by the liquidator.
(4) When the account has been audited, one copy thereof
shall be filed and kept by the Registrar and the other copy
shall be delivered to the court for filing, and each copy shall
be open to the inspection of any person on payment of the
prescrihed fee.
(5) The liquidator shall send a copy of the account or
summary by post to every creditor and contributory, unless
he considers that it is not practicable to do so, having regard
to the cost of so doing and the value of the assets of the
company.
Control of 297. (1) The Registrar shall take cognizance of the
Registrar over conduct of liquidators of companies which are being wound
liquidator. up by the court, and where a liquidator does not faithfully
perform his duties and duly observe all requirements imposed
on him by any written law or otherwise with respect to the
performance of his duties, or where any complaint is made to
the Registrar by any creditor or contributory in regard thereto,
the Registrar shall inquire into the matter and if necessary,
report to the court.
(2) The Registrar may at any time require any liquidator
of a company which is being wound up by the court to answer
any inquiry in relation to any winding up in which he is
engaged, and may where the Registrar thinks fit so to do,
make an application to court to examine him or any other
person on oath on any matter concerning the winding up.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 233
(3) The Registrar may also direct a local investigation to
be made of the books and vouchers of the liquidator.
298. (1) When the liquidator of a company which is Release of
being wound up by the court has realized all the property of liquidators.
the company or so much thereof as can in his opinion, be
realized without needlessly protracting the liquidation, has
distributed a final dividend, if any, to the creditors and
adjusted the rights of the contributories among themselves
and made a final retuen if any to the contributories, or has
resigned or has been removed from his office, the court shall,
on his application for a release from the office of the
liquidator, cause a report on the accounts to be prepared, and
on his complying with all the requirements of the court, shall
take into consideration the report and any objection which
may be urged by any creditor or contributory or person
interested against the release of the liquidator, and shall either
grant or withhold such release accordingly.
(2) Where the release of a liquidator is withheld, the court
may on the application of any creditor or contributory or
person interested, make such order as it thinks just, charging
the liquidator with the consequences of any act done or
default made by him in the administration of the affairs of the
company.
(3) An order of the court releasing the liquidator shall
discharge him form all liability in respect of any act done or
default made by him in the administration of the affairs of the
company or otherwise in relation to his conduct as liquidator,
but any such order may be revoked on proof that it was
obtained by fraud or by suppression or concealment of any
material fact.
(4) Where the liquidator has not previously resigned or
been removed from office, his release shall have the effect of
a removal of a liquidator from his office.
234 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
COMMITTEE OF INSPECTION
Meetings of 299. (1) When a winding up order has been made by
creditors and the court, it shall be the business of the seperate meetings of
contributories
creditors and contributories summoned for the purpose of
to determine
whether determining whether or not an application should be made
committee of to the court for appointing a liquidator in place of the official
inspections
receiver, to determine further, whether or not an application
shall be
appointed. shall be made to the court for the appointment of a committee
of inspection to act with the liquidator and the persons who
shall be members of such committee, if appointed.
(2) The court may make any appointment or order
required to give effect to any such determination, and where
there is any difference between the determinations of the
meetings of the creditors and contributories in respect of
the matters referred to in subsection (1), the court shall
decide the difference and make such order thereon as the
court may think fit.
Constitution 300. (1) A committee of inspection appointed in
and pursuance of the provisions of this Act shall consist of
proceedings
creditors and contributories of the company or persons
of committee
of holding general powers of attorney from creditors or
inspection. contributories in such proportions as may be agreed on at the
meetings of creditors and contributories, or in case of any
difference, as may be determined by the court.
(2) The committee shall meet at such times as they from
time to time appoint, provided that a meeting is held at least
once in every three months. The liquidator or any member of
the committee may also call a meeting of the committee as
and when such liquidator or member, as the case may be,
thinks necessary.
(3) The committee shall not act unless a majority of the
members of the committee are present at the meeting.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 235
(4) A member of the committee may resign by notice in
writing signed by him and delivered to the liquidator.
(5) Where a member of the committee becomes insolvent
or bankrupt or compounds or arranges with his creditors or is
absent from three consecutive meetings of the committee
without the leave of those members who together with himself
represent the creditors or contributories, as the case may be,
his office shall become vacant.
(6) A member of the committee may be removed by an
ordinary resolution at a meeting of creditors if he represents
creditors or of contributories if he represents contributories,
notice of such meeting being given seven days prior to the
date and also stating the objects of such meeting.
(7) On a vacancy occurring in the committee, the
liquidator shall forthwith summon a meeting of creditors or
of contributories, as the case may be, to fill the vacancy and
the meeting may by resolution, re-appoint the same or appoint
another creditor or contributory to fill the vacancy:
Provided that where the liquidator having regard to the
state of the winding up, is of the opinion that it is unnecessary
for the vacancy to be filled, he may make an application to
the court for an order that the vacancy shall not be filled and
the court may make such an order or an order that such
vacancy shall not be filled except in such circumstances as
may be specified in the order.
301. Where in the case of a winding up there is no Powers of court
committee of inspection, the court may on the application of where there is no
committee of
the liquidator, do any act or give any direction or permission
inspection.
which by this Act is authorised or required to be done or
given, by the committee.
236 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
GENERAL POWERS OF COURT IN CASE OF WINDING UP BY COURT
Power to stay 302. (1) The court may at any time after an order for
winding up. winding up is made, on the application either of the liquidator
or the official receiver or any creditor or contributory, and on
proof to the satisfaction of the court that all proceedings in
relation to the winding up ought to be stayed, make an order
staying the proceedings either altogether or for a limited
time, on such terms and conditions as the court thinks fit.
(2) On any application made under the provisions of
subsection (1), the court may before making an order require
the official receiver to furnish to the court a report with respect
to any facts or matters which are in his opinion relevant to
the application.
(3) A copy of every order made under the provisions of
this section shall forthwith be forwarded by the company or
otherwise as may be prescribed to the Registrar, who shall
forthwith make a minute of the order in his books relating to
the company.
Settlement of list 303. (1) As soon as may be after making a winding up
of contributories order, the court shall settle a list of contributories, with power
and application
to rectify the share register in all cases where rectification is
of assets.
required in pursuance of this Act and shall cause the assets of
the company to be collected and applied in discharge of its
liabilities:
Provided that where it appears to the court that it will not
be necessary to make calls on or adjust the rights of
contributories, the court may dispense with the settlement of
a list of contributories.
(2) In settling the list of contributories, the court shall
distinguish between persons who are contributories in their
own right and persons who are contributories as being
representatives of or liable for the debts of others.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 237
304. The court may, at any time after making a winding Delivery of
up order, require any contributory for the time being on the property to
liquidator.
list of contributories, and any trustee, receiver, banker, agent
or officer of the company to pay, deliver, convey, surrender or
transfer forthwith or within such time as the court directs, to
the liquidator any money, property, or books and papers in
his hand to which the company is prima facie entitled.
305. (1) The court may at any time after making a
Payment of debts
winding up order, make an order on any contributory for the due by
time being on the list of contributories, to pay in the manner contributory to
directed by the order, any money due from him or from the company and
extent to which
estate of the person whom he represents to the company,
set off is
exclusive of any money payable by him or such estate by allowed.
virtue of any call in pursuance of this Act.
(2) The court in making such an order may in the case of
an unlimited company, allow to the contributory by way of
set-off any money due to him or to the estate which he
represents from the company, on any independent dealing or
contract with the company, but not any money due to him as
a member of the company in respect of any dividend or profit.
(3) In the case of any company whether limited or
unlimited, when all the creditors are paid in full, any money
due on any account whatever to a contributory from the
company may be allowed to him by way of set-off against
any subsequent call.
306. (1) The court may order any contributory, purchaser Payment into
or other person from whom money is due to the company, to bank of moneys
pay the amount due into a specified bank or any branch due to company.
thereof to the account of the liquidator instead of to the
liquidator, and any such order may be endorsed in the same
manner as if it had directed payment to the liquidator.
(2) All moneys and securities paid or delivered into a
specified bank or any branch thereof in the event of a winding
up by the court shall be subject in all respects to the orders of
the court.
238 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Appointment of 307. (1) Where the official receiver becomes the
special manager. liquidator of a company whether provisionally or otherwise,
he may where satisfied that the nature of the estate or business
of the company or the interests of the creditors or
contributories generally, require the appointment of a special
manager of the estate or business of the company other than
himself, make an application to court for the appointment of
a special manager of the estate or business of the company,
and the court may on such application appoint a special
manager of the said estate or business to act during such time
as the court may direct, with such powers including any of
the powers of a receiver or manager, as may be entrusted to
him by the court.
(2) The special manager appointed under the provisions
of subsection (1), shall give such security and account in
such manner as the court directs.
(3) The special manager appointed under the provisions
of subsection (1) shall receive such remuneration as may be
fixed by the court.
Inspection of 308. The court may at any time after making a winding
books by up order, make such order for inspection of the books and
creditors and
papers of the company by creditors and contributories as the
contributories.
court thinks just, and any books and papers in the possession
of the company may be inspected by creditors or
contributories accordingly.
Power to order 309. The court may in the event of the assets being
costs of winding insufficient to satisfy the liabilities, make an order as to the
up to be paid out payment out of the assets of the costs, charges, and expenses
of assets.
incurred in the winding up, in such order of priority as the
court thinks just.
Power to 310. (1) The court may at any time after the appointment
summon persons of a provisional liquidator or the making of a winding up
suspected of
order, summon before it any officer of the company or person
having property
of company. known or suspected to have in his possession any property of
the company or alleged to be indebted to the company, or
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 239
any person whom the court deems capable of giving
information concerning the promotion, formation, trade,
dealings, affairs or property of the company.
(2) The court may examine on oath any officer or person
summoned under the provisions of subsection (1) on any
matter referred to in that subsection, either orally or on written
interrogatories, and may where such examination is conducted
orally, reduce the answers to writing and require such officer
or person to sign it.
(3) The court may require any officer or person summoned
under the provisions of subsection (1), to produce any books
and papers in his custody or power relating to the company,
but where such officer or person claims any lien on such
books or papers produced by him, the production shall be
without prejudice to that lien, and the court shall have
jurisdiction in the winding up to determine all questions
relating to that lien.
(4) Any officer or person summoned under the provisions
of subsection (1) who refuses or fails without reasonable cause,
to appear before court or to produce any books or papers
required to be produced by him at the time and on the date
specified in the summons, shall be liable to be arrested and
produced before court for examination.
311. (1) Where an order has been made by the court for Power to order
the winding up of a company and the official receiver has public
made a further report under the provisions of this Act, stating examination of
promoters,
that in his opinion a fraud has been committed by any person
directors &c.
in the promotion or formation of the company or by any
officer of the company in relation to the company since its
formation, the court may after consideration of such report,
direct that such person or officer shall attend before the court
on a day appointed by the court for that purpose, and be
publicly examined as to the promotion or formation or the
conduct of the business of the company or as to his conduct
and dealing as officer thereof.
240 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(2) The official receiver may make representations at the
examination referred to in subsection (1), and for that purpose
may be represented by an attorney at-law.
(3) The liquidator, where the official receiver is not the
liquidator, and any creditor or contributory may also take
part in the examination either personally or by an attorney-
at-law.
(4) The person or officer examined under the provisions
of this section shall be examined on oath or affirmation and
shall answer all such questions as the court may put or allow
to be put to him
Person or officer 312. (1) A person or officer directed to be examined
being examined under the provisions of section 311 shall at his own cost,
to be represented before being so examined, be furnished with a copy of the
by an attorney-
report of the official receiver and may at his own cost be
at-law, &c,.
represented by an attorney-at-law, who shall be at liberty to
put to such person or officer such questions as the court may
deem just for the purpose of enabling him to explain or qualify
any answers given by him:
Provided that, where any such person or officer makes an
application to court to be exculpated from any charges made
or alleged against him, it shall be the duty of the official
receiver to appear at the hearing of the application and draw
the attention of the court to any matters which appear to the
official receiver to be relevant, and where the court after
hearing any evidence given or witnesses called by the official
receiver, grants the application, the court may allow the
applicant such costs as it may in its discretion, thinks fit.
(2) Proceedings of the examination held under section
311 shall be reduced to writing and shall be read over to or
by, and signed by the person or officer examined, and may
thereafter be used in evidence against him and shall be open
to the inspection of any creditor or contributory at all
reasonable times.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 241
(3) The court may if it thinks fit, adjourn the examination
from time to time.
313. The court may at any time either before or after Power to arrest
making a winding up order, on reasonable cause being shown absconding
for believing that a contributory is about to leave Sri Lanka contributory.
or otherwise to abscond or to remove or conceal any of his
property for the purpose of evading payment of calls, or for
avoiding examination with respect to the affairs of the
company, may cause the contributory to be arrested, and his
books and papers and movable personal property to be seized
and kept in safe custody until such time, as the court may
specify.
314. Any powers by this Act conferred on the court shall Powers of court
be in addition to and not in restriction of any existing powers cumulative.
of instituting proceedings against any contributory or debtor
of the company or the estate of any contributory or debtor,
for the recovery of any call or other sums.
315. The Minister may make rules for enabling or Delegation to
requiring all or any of the powers and duties conferred and liquidator of
imposed on the court by this Act, in respect of— certain powers of
court.
(a) the holding and conducting of meetings to ascertain
the wishes of creditors and contributories;
(b) the settling of lists of contributories and the
rectifying of the register of members where required,
and the collecting and applying of the assets;
(c) the paying, delivery, conveyance, surrender or
transfer of money, property, books or papers to the
liquidator;
(d) the fixing of a time within which debts and claims
shall be proved,
to be exercised or performed by the liquidator as an officer of
the court and subject to the control of the court:
242 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Provided that the liquidator shall not without the special
leave of the court, rectify the register of members and shall
not make any call without either the special leave of the
court or the sanction of the committee of inspection.
Dissolution of a 316. (1) Where the affairs of a company have been
company. completely wound up, the court shall where the liquidator
makes an application in that behalf, make an order that the
company be dissolved from the date of such order and the
company shall be dissolved accordingly.
(2) A copy of the order made under the provisions of
subsection (1) shall, within fifteen days from the date of such
order, be forwarded by the liquidator to the Registrar who
shall make in his books a minute of the dissolution of the
company.
(3) Where the liquidator fails to comply with the
requirements of this section, he shall be guilty of an offence
and be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one
hundred thousand rupees.
Manner of 317. Any order made by a court under this Act may be
enforcing order enforced in the same manner in which a decree of such court
of court.
made in any suit pending therein may be enforced.
Enforcement of 318. Where any order made by one court is required to
winding up be enforced by any other court, a certified copy of the order
order in another
shall be produced to the court required to enforce the same,
court.
and the production of a certified copy shall be sufficient
evidence of the order, and thereupon such other court shall
take the requisite steps in the matter for enforcing the order,
in the same manner as if it had been made by that court.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 243
(III) VOLUNTARY WINDING UP
RESOLUTION FOR AND COMMENCEMENT OF VOLUNTARY WINDING UP
319. (1) A company may be wound up voluntarily— Circumstances in
which a
company may be
(a) when the period if any, fixed for the duration of the wound up
company by the articles expires or the event if any, voluntarily.
occurs on the occurrence of which the articles
provide that the company is to be dissolved, and
the company at a general meeting has passed a
resolution requiring the company to be wound up
voluntarily;
(b) where the company resolves by special resolution
that the company be wound up voluntarily;
(c) where the company resolves by special resolution
to the effect that it cannot by reason of its liabilities
continue its business and that it is advisable to wind
up.
(2) In this Act the expression “a resolution for voluntary
winding up” means a resolution passed under the provisions
of subsection (1).
320. (1) When the company has passed a resolution for Notice of
voluntary winding up, it shall within fourteen days from the resolution to
wind up
date of the passing of the resolution, give notice of the
voluntarily.
resolution by publication in the Gazette.
(2) Where the company fails to comply with the provisions
of this section —
(a) the company shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one
hundred thousand rupees; and
244 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction
to a penalty not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
(3) For the purposes of this section, the liquidator of
company shall be deemed to be an officer of the company.
Commencement 321. A voluntary winding up shall be deemed to
of voluntary commence at the time of the passing of the resolution for
winding up.
voluntary winding up.
CONSEQUENCES OF VOLUNTARY WINDING UP
Effect of 322. In the case of a voluntary winding up, the company
voluntary shall from the date of commencement of the winding up,
winding up on
cease to carry on its business except so far as may be required
business and
for the beneficial winding up thereof:
status of
company.
Provided that the corporate state and corporate powers of
the company shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in its articles, continue until such company is dissolved.
323. Any transfer of shares, not being a transfer made to
Avoidance of
transfers,&c., or with the sanction of the liquidator and any alteration in
after the status of the shareholders of the company made after the
commencement
date of commencement of a voluntary winding up, shall be
of voluntary
void.
DECLARATION OF SOLVENCY
324. (1) Where it is proposed to wind up a company
Statutory
declaration voluntarily, the directors of the company or in the case of a
of solvency company having more than two directors the majority of the
in case of
directors may at a meeting of the directors, make a statutory
proposal to
wind up declaration to the effect that they have made a full inquiry
voluntarily. into the affairs of the company and that they are of the opinion
that the company will be able to pay its debts in full within
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 245
such period not exceeding twelve moths, from the date of
commencement of the winding up as may be specified in the
declaration.
(2) A declaration made under the provisions of subsection
(1) shall have no effect for the purposes of this Act, unless—
(a) it is made within the five weeks immediately
preceding the date of the passing of the resolution
for winding up of the company and is delivered to
the Registrar for registration by that date; and
(b) it embodies a statement of the company’s assets and
liabilities as at the latest practicable date before the
making of such declaration.
(3) A winding up in the case of which a declaration has
been made and delivered in accordance with the provisions
of this section, is in this Act referred to as “a shareholders’
voluntary winding up”, and a winding up in the case of which
a declaration has not been so made and delivered, is in this
Act referred to as “a creditors’ voluntary winding up”.
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO A SHAREHOLDERS’ VOLUNTARY WINDING UP
325. The provisions of sections 326 to 332 (both Provisions
inclusive) shall, subject to the provisions of section 326, relating to a
shareholders’
apply in relation to a shareholders’ voluntary winding up.
voluntary
winding up.
326. (1) The company at a general meeting shall Power of
appoint one or more liquidators for the purpose of winding company to
appoint and fix
up the affairs and distributing the assets of the company and
remuneration of
may fix the remuneration to be paid to each such liquidator.
liquidators.
(2) On the appointment of a liquidator, all the powers of
the directors shall cease, execpt so far as the company in
general meeting or the liquidator sanctions the continuance
thereof.
246 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Power to fill 327. (1) Where a vacancy occurs by death, resignation,
vacancy in or otherwise in the office of liquidator appointed by the
office of
company, the company at a general meeting may, subject to
liquidator.
any arrangement with its creditors, fill the vacancy.
(2) For the purpose of filing a vacancy in the office of
liquidator, a general meeting of the company may be
convened by any contributory or where there are more
liquidators than one, by the continuing liquidators.
(3) The meeting referred to in subsection (2) shall be held
in the manner provided by this Act or by the articles or in
such manner as may on application by any contributory or
by the continuing liquidators, be determined by the court.
Power of 328. (1) Where a company is proposed to be or is in the
liquidator to course of being, wound up voluntarily, and the whole or part
accept shares
of its business or property is proposed to be transferred or
&c. in
consideration sold to another company, whether a company within the
for sale of meaning of this Act or not (in this section called “the transferee
property of
company”) the liquidator of the first-mentioned company
company.
(in this section called “the transferor company”) may with
the sanction of a special resolution of that company conferring
either a general authority on the liquidator or an anthority in
respect of any particular arrangement, receive in
compensation or part compensation for the transfer or sale,
shares, policies or other like interests in the transferee
company for distribution among the shareholders of the
transferor company, or may enter into any other arrangement
whereby the shareholders of the transferor company may, in
lieu of receiving cash, shares, policies, or other like interest,
or in addition thereto, participate in the profits of or receive
any other benefit from the transferee company.
(2) Any sale or arrangement in pursuance of the provisions
of this section shall be binding on the shareholders of the
transferor company.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 247
(3) Where any shareholder of the transferor company who
did not vote in favour of the special resolution expresses his
dissent therefrom in writing addressed to the liquidator and
is left at the registered office of the company within seven
days from the date of the passing of the resolution, he may
require the liquidator either to abstain from carrying the
resolution into effect or to purchase his interest at a price to
be determined by agreement or by court, upon application
made to court by the shareholder or the liquidator in the
manner provided for by this section.
(4) Where the liquidator elects to purchase the
shareholder’s interest, the purchase money shall be paid
before the company is dissolved and be raised by the
liquidator in such manner as may be determined by special
resolution.
(5) A special resolution shall not be invalid for the
purposes of this section by reason that it is passed before or
concurrently with a resolution for voluntary winding up or
for appointing liquidators, but where an order is made within
a year of the date of passing of the resolution for winding up
the company, by or subject to the supervision of the court,
the special resolution shall not be valid unless sanctioned by
the court.
329. (1) Where the liquidator at any time is of opinion Duty of
that the company will not be able to pay its debts in full liquidators to call
creditiors’
within the period stated in the declaration made under the
meeting in case
provisions of section 324, he shall forthwith summon a of insolvency.
meeting of the creditors and shall lay before the meeting a
statement of the assets and liabilities of the company.
(2) Where the liquidator fails to comply with the
provisions of this section, he shall be guilty of an offence
and be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees.
248 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Duty of 330. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 332, in the
liquidator to event of the winding up continuing for more than one year,
call general
the liquidator shall summon a general meeting of the
meeting at
end of each company at the end of the first year from the date of
year. commencement of the winding up, and of each succeeding
year or at the first convenient date within three months from
the end of the year or such longer period as the Registrar may
allow, and shall lay before the meeting an account of his acts
and dealings and of the conduct of the winding up during the
preceding year.
(2) Where the liquidator fails to comply with the
provisions of this section, he shall be guilty of an offence
and be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees.
Final 331. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 332, as
meeting and soon as the affairs of the company are fully wound up, the
dissolution.
liquidator shall make up an account of the winding up
showing how the winding up has been conducted and the
property of the company has been disposed of, and thereupon
shall call a general meeting of the company for the purpose
of laying before it the account and giving an explanation
thereof.
(2) The meeting referred to in subsection (1) shall be called
by a notice published in the Gazette, specifying the date,
time, place, and object thereof and published at least one
month before such date.
(3) Within one week after the meeting referred to in
subsection (1), the liquidator shall send to the Registrar a
copy of the account and shall make a return to him of the
holding of the meeting and of its date, and where the copy is
not sent or the return is not made in accordance with the
provisions of this subsection, the liquidator shall be guilty
of an offence and be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees :
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 249
Provided that where a quorum is not present at the meeting,
the liquidator shall in lieu of the return referred to in the
preceding provisions, make a return that the meeting was
duly summoned and that no quorum was present thereat, and
upon such a return being made the provisions of this
subsection as to the making of the return shall be deemed to
have been complied with.
(4) The Registrar on receiving the account and either of
the returns referred to in subsection (3), shall forthwith register
them and on the expiration of three months from the date of
the registration of the return, the company shall be deemed
to be dissolved :
Provided that the court may on the application of the
liquidator or of any other person who appears to the court to
be interested, make an order deferring the date at which the
dissolution of the company is to take effect, for such time as
the court thinks fit.
(5) It shall be the duty of the person on whose application
an order of the court under the provisions of this section is
made, within seven days from the date of making of the order
to deliver to the Registrar a certified copy of such order for
registration, and where such person fails so to do, he shall be
guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
(6) Where a liquidator fails to call a general meeting of
the company as required by the provisions of this section, he
shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
332. In any case where the provisions of section 329 Alternative
have effect, the provisions of sections 340 and 341 shall provision as to
annual and final
apply to the winding up to the exclusion of the provisions of
meetings in case
sections 330 and 331, as if the winding up were a creditors’ of insolvency.
voluntary winding up and not a members’ voluntary winding
up :
250 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Provided that the liquidator shall not be required to
summon a meeting of creditors under the provisions of section
340 at the end of the first year from the date of the
commencement of the winding up, unless the meeting held
under the provisions of section 329 is held more than three
months before the end of that year.
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO A CREDITOR’S VOLUNTARY WINDING UP
Provisions 333. The provisions of sections 334 to 341 (both
applicable to a inclusive) shall apply in relation to a creditor’s voluntary
creditors’
winding up.
winding up.
Meeting of 334. (1) The company shall cause a meeting of the
creditors. creditors of the company to be summoned for the day or the
day next following the day, on which there is to be held the
meeting at which the resolution for voluntary winding up is
to be proposed, and shall cause the notices of such meeting
of creditors to be sent by post to the creditors, simultaneously
with the sending of the notices of the said meeting of the
company.
(2) The company shall cause notice of the meeting of the
creditors to be published in the Gazette and at least in two
local newspapers circulating in the district where the
registered office or principal place of business of the company
is situated.
(3) The directors of the company shall—
(a) cause a full statement of the position of the
company’s affairs together with a list of creditors of
the company and the estimated amount of their
claims are to be laid before the meeting of creditors
to be held, as referred to in subsection (1) ; and
(b) appoint one of their number to preside at such
meeting.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 251
(4) It shall be the duty of the director appointed to preside
at the meeting of creditors to attend the meeting and preside
thereat.
(5) Where the meeting of the company at which the
resolution for voluntary winding up is to be proposed is
adjourned and the resolution is passed at an adjourned
meeting, any resolution passed at the meeting of the creditors
held in pursuance of the provisions of subsection (1), shall
have effect as if it had been passed immediately after the
passing of the resolution for winding up of the company.
(6) Where default is made—
(a) by the company in complying with the provisions
of subsections (1) and (2) ;
(b) by the directors of the company in complying with
the provisions of subsection (3) ;
(c) by any director of the company in complying with
the provisions of subsection (4),
such company or any such director, as the case may be, shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding two hundred thousand rupees and in the case
of default by the company, every officer of the company who
is in default shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on
conviction to a penalty not exceeding one hundred thousand
rupees.
335. The creditors and the company at their respective Appointment of
meetings referred to in section 334, may nominate a person liquidator.
to be liquidator for the purpose of winding up the affairs and
distributing the assets of the company and where the creditors
and the company nominate different persons, the person
nominated by the creditors shall be the liquidator, and where
252 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
no person is nominated by the creditors, the person if any,
nominated by the company shall be the liquidator :
Provided that, in the case of different persons being
nominated, any director, shareholder or creditor of the
company may, within seven days from the date on which the
nomination was made by the creditors, make an application
to court for an order, either directing that the person nominated
as liquidator by the company shall be liquidator instead of or
jointly with the person nominated by the creditors or
appointing some other person to be liquidator instead of the
person appointed by the creditors.
Appointment of 336. (1) The creditors at the meeting held in pursuance
committee of of the provisions of section 334 or at any subsequent meeting
inspection.
may, if they think fit, appoint a committee of inspection
consisting of not more than five person, and where such a
committee is appointed the company may either at the
meeting at which the resolution for voluntary winding up is
passed or at any time subsequently at a general meeting,
appoint such number of persons not exceeding five as they
think fit, to act as members of the committee :
Provided that the creditors may if they think fit, resolve
that all or any of the persons so appointed by the company
ought not to be members of the committee of inspection, and
where the creditors so resolve the persons specified in the
resolution shall not, unless the court otherwise directs, be
qualified to act as members of the committee and on any
application to the court under the provisions of this section
the court may, if it thinks fit, appoint other persons to act as
such members in place of the persons specified in the
resolution.
(2) Subject to the provisions of any rule made under this
Act, the provisions of section 300, other than the provisions
of subsection (1) of that section, shall apply with respect to a
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 253
committee of inspection appointed under the provisions of
this section, as they apply with respect to a committee of
inspection appointed in a winding up by the court.
337. (1) The committee of inspection or where there is Fixing of
no such committee the creditors, may fix the remuneration to liquidators’
be paid to the liquidator or liquidators. remuneration
and ceasing of
directors’
(2) On the appointment of a liquidator, all the powers of
powers.
the directors shall cease, except so far as the committee of
inspection, or where there is no such committee the creditors,
sanction the continuance thereof.
338. Where a vacancy occurs by death, resignation or Power to fill
otherwise in the office of a liquidator, other than a liquidator vacancy in office
appointed by or by the direction of the court, the creditors of liquidator.
may fill the vacancy.
339. The provisions of section 328 shall apply in the Application of
case of a creditors’ voluntary winding up as in the case of a section 328 to a
creditors’
members’ voluntary winding up, with the modification that
voluntary
the powers of the liquidator under that section shall not be
winding up.
exercised except with the sanction either of the court or of
the committee of inspection.
340. (1) In the event of the winding up continuing for Duty of
more than one year, the liquidator shall summon a general liquidator to call
meeting of the company and a meeting of the creditors at the meetings of
company and of
end of the first year from the commencement of the winding
creditors at end
up and each succeeding year or at the first convenient date of each year.
within three months from the end of the year or such longer
period as the Registrar may allow, and shall lay before the
meeting an account of his acts and dealings and of the conduct
of the winding up during the preceding year.
(2) Where the liquidator fails to comply with the
provisions of this section, he shall be guilty of an offence
and be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees.
254 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Final meeting 341. (1) As soon as the affairs of the company are fully
and dissolution. wound up, the liquidator shall make up an account of the
winding up showing how the winding up has been conducted
and the property of the company has been disposed of, and
thereupon shall call a general meeting of the company and a
meeting of the creditors, for the purpose of laying the account
before the meetings and giving an explanation thereof.
(2) Every meeting referred to in subsection (1) shall be
called by notice published in the Gazette, specifying the
date, time, place, and object thereof and published at least
one month before such date.
(3) Within one week form the date of the meetings referred
to in subsection (1), or where such meetings are not held on
the same date, from the date of the later meeting, the liquidator
shall send to the Registrar a copy of the account and shall
make a return to him of the holding of the meetings and of
their dates, and where the copy is not sent or the return is not
made in accrodance with the provisions of this subsection,
the liquidator shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees :
Provided that, where a quorum is not present at either
such meeting, the liquidator shall in lieu of the return referred
to in the preceding provisions, make a return that the meeting
was duly summoned and that no quorum was present thereat,
and upon such a return being made the provisions of this
subsection as to the making of the return shall, in respect of
that meeting, be deemed to have been complied with.
(4) The Registrar on receiving the account in respect of
each meeting referred to in subsection (1) and either of the
returns referred to in subsection (3), shall forthwith register
them and on the expiration of three months from the date of
registration thereof, the company shall be deemed to be
dissolved :
Provided that the court may on the application of the
liquidator or of any other person who appears to the court to
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 255
be interested, make an order deferring the date at which the
dissolution of the company is to take effect for such time as
the court thinks fit.
(5) It shall be the duty of the person on whose application
an order of the court under the provisions of this section is
made, within seven days from the date of the making of the
order, to deliver to the Registrar a certified copy of the order
for registration and where that person fails so to do, he shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
(6) Where a liquidator fails to call a general meeting of
the company or a meeting of the creditors as required by the
provisions of this section, he shall be guilty of an offence
and be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees.
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO EVERY VOLUNTARY WINDING UP.
342. The provisions of sections 343 to 350 (both Provisions
inclusive) shall apply to every voluntary winding up, whether applicable to
every voluntary
a shareholders’ or a creditors’ winding up.
winding up.
343. Subject to the provisions of this Act as to preferential Distribution of
payments, the property of a company shall on its winding up property of
company.
be applied in satisfaction of it liabilities pari passu, and
subject to such application, shall, unless the articles otherwise
provide, be distributed among the shareholders according to
their rights and interests in the company.
344. (1) The liquidator may— Powers and
duties of
liquidator in
(a) in the case of a shareholders’ voluntary winding up
voluntary
with the sanction of a special resolution of the
winding up.
company, and in the case of a creditors’ voluntary
winding up with the sanction of either the court or
the committee of inspection or (if there is no such
256 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
committee) a meeting of creditors, exercise any of
the powers specified in the provisions of paragraphs
(d), (e) and (f) of subsection (1) of section 292 in
relation to a liquidator in a winding up by the court;
(b) without sanction exercise any power other than
those referred to in paragraph (a), given by this Act
to the liquidator in a winding up by the court ;
(c) exercise the power of the court under the provisions
of this Act of setting of list of contributories, and the
list of contributories shall be prima facie evidence
of the liability of the persons named therein to be
contributories ;
(d) exercise the power of the court of making calls ;
(e) summon general meetings of the company for the
purpose of obtaining the sanction of the company
by special resolution or for any other purpose the
liquidator may think fit.
(2) The liquidator shall pay the debts of the company
and shall adjust the rights of the contributories among
themselves.
(3) When several liquidators are appointed, any power
given by this Act may be exercised by such one or more of
them as may be determined at the time of their appointment,
or in default of such determination, by any number not less
than two.
Power of court 345. (1) Where for any cause whatever, there is no
to appoint and liquidator acting, the court may appoint a liquidator.
remove
liquidator in
voluntary (2) The court may on cause shown, remove a liquidator
winding up. and appoint another liquidator.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 257
346. (1) A liquidator appointed under any of the Notice by
provisions of this Act shall, within fourteen days from the liquidator of his
appointment.
date of his appointment, publish in the Gazette and deliver
to the Registrar for registration, a notice of his appointment
in the prescribed form.
(2) Where the liquidator fails to comply with the
requirements of subsection (1), he shall be guilty of an offence
and be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees.
347. (1) Any arrangement entered into between a Arrangement
company about to be or in the course of being wound up, and when binding on
creditors.
its creditors shall, subject to the right of appeal under the
provisions of this section, be binding on the company where
sanctioned by a special resolution, and on the creditors where
acceded to by three-fourths the number and value of the
creditors.
(2) Any creditor or contributory may within three weeks
from the completion of the arrangement appeal to the court
against such arrangement, and the court may thereupon as it
thinks just, amend, vary or confirm the arrangement.
348. (1) The liquidator or any contributory or creditor Power to apply
may make an application to court to determine any question to court to have
arising in the winding up of a company or to exercise, as question
determined or
respects the enforcing of calls or any other matter, all or any
powers
of the powers which the court might exercise if the company exercised.
were being wound up by the court.
(2) The court if satisfied that the determination of the
question or the required exercise of power will be just and
beneficial, may accede wholly or partially to the application
on such terms and conditions as it thinks fit or may make
such other order on the application as it thinks just.
(3) A copy of an order made by virtue of the provisions of
subsection (2) staying the proceedings in the winding up,
258 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
shall forthwith be forwarded by the company or otherwise as
may be prescribed, to the Registrar who shall make a minute
of the order in his books relating to the company.
Costs of 349. All costs, charges, and expenses properly incurred
voluntary
in the winding up including the remuneration of the liquidator,
winding up.
shall be payable out of the assets of the company in priority
to all other claims.
Saving for rights 350. The winding up of a company shall not bar the right
of creditors and
of any creditor or contributory to have it wound up by the
contributories.
court, but where an application for winding up is made by a
contributory, the court shall be satisfied that the rights of the
contributories will be prejudiced by a voluntary winding up.
(IV) WINDING UP SUBJECT TO SUPERVISION OF COURT
Power to order 351. When a company has passed a resolution for
winding up voluntary winding up, the court may make an order that the
subject to voluntary winding up shall continue but subject to such
supervision.
supervision of the court, and with such liberty for creditors,
contributories or others to apply to the court, and generally
on such terms and conditions as the court thinks just.
Effect of 352. A petition for the continuance of a voluntary
petition for winding up subject to the supervision of the court shall, for
winding up
the prupose of giving jurisdiction to the court over actions,
subject to
be deemed to be a petition for winding up by the court.
supervision.
Applications of 353. A winding up subject to the supervision of the court
section 275 and shall for the purposes of sections 275 and 276 be deemed to
276 to winding
be a winding up by the court.
up subject to
supervision.
Power of 354. (1) Where an order is made by court for a winding
court to up subject to supervision, the court may by that or any
appoint or
subsequent order, appoint an additional liquidator.
remove
liquidators.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 259
(2) A liquidator appointed by the court under the
provisions of subsection (1) shall have the same powers, be
subject to the same obligations, and in all respects have the
same position, as if he had been duly appointed in accordance
with the provisions of this Act with respect to the appointment
of liquidators in a voluntary winding up.
(3) The court may remove any liquidator appointed under
the provisions of subsection (1), or any liquidator in a winding
up continued under the supervision of court and fill any
vacancy occasioned by such removal, or by death or
resignation of any liquidator.
355. (1) When an order is made under the provisions of Effect of
section 351 for a winding up subject to supervision, the supervision
order.
liquidator may subject to any restrictions imposed by the
court, exercise all his powers without the sanction or
intervention of the court, in the same manner as if the
company were being wound up voluntarily :
Provided that the powers specified in the provisions of
paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of subsection (1) of section 292
shall not be exercised by the liquidator, except with the
sanction of the court or in a case where before the order the
winding up was a creditor’s voluntary winding up, with the
sanction of either the court or the committee of inspection or
where there is no such committee, a meeting of the creditors.
(2) A winding up subject to the supervision of the court
shall not constitute a winding up by the court for the purpose
of the provisions of this Act which are set out in the Eighth
Schedule hereto, but subject as aforesaid, an order for a
winding up subject to supervision shall for all purposes, be
deemed to be an order for winding up by the court:
Provided that, where the order for winding up subject to
supervision was made in relation to a creditors’ voluntary
winding up in which a committee of inspection had been
appointed, the order shall be deemed to be an order for
260 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
winding up by the court for the purposes of the provisions of
section 300, other than the provisions of subsection (1) of
that section, except in so far as the operation of that section
is excluded in a voluntary winding up by rules made under
this Act.
PROOF AND RANKING OF CLAIMS
Admissible 356. A debt or liability present or future, certain or
claims. contingent, whether it is an ascertained debt or liability or a
liability for damages, may be admitted as a claim against a
company in liquidation.
Claims by 357. (1) A claim by an unsecured creditor against a
unsecured company in a winding up shall be made in the prescribed
creditors.
form and shall —
(a) contain full particulars of the claim; and
(b) identify any documents that evidence or
substantiate the claim.
(2) The liquidator may—
(a) require the production of a document referred to in
paragraph (b) of subsection (1); and
(b) require a claim to be verified by affidavit.
(3) The liquidator shall as soon as practicable, either admit
or reject a claim in whole or in part. If the liquidator
subsequently considers that a claim has been wrongly
admitted or rejected in whole or in part, he may revoke or
amend that decision.
(4) If a liquidator rejects a claim whether in whole or in
part, he shall forthwith give notice in writting of the rejection
to the creditor.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 261
(5) The costs of making a claim under subsection (1) or
producing a document under subsection (2), shall be met by
the creditor making the claim.
(6) Every person who—
(a) makes or authorises the making of a claim under
this section that is false or misleading in a material
particular knowing it to be false or misleading; or
(b) omits or authorises the omission from a claim under
this section, of any matter knowing that the omission
makes the claim false or misleading in a material
particular,
shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding one million rupees or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding five years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
358. (1) A secured creditor may— Rights and duties
of secured
creditors.
(a) seize, attach and realise, issue execution against or
appoint a receiver in respect of property subject to a
charge, if entitled to do so;
(b) value the property subject to the charge and claim
in the liquidation—
(i) as a secured creditor for the amount of his
claim, up to the value of the security; and
(ii) as an unsecured creditor for the balance due,
if any; or
(c) surrender the charge to the liquidator for the general
benefit of creditors, and claim in the liquidation as
an unsecured creditor for the whole debt.
262 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(2) A secured creditor may exercise the power referred to
in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) whether or not the secured
creditor has exercised the power referred to in paragraph (b)
of subsection (1).
(3) A secured creditor who realises property subject to a
charge—
(a) may claim as an unsecured creditor for any balance
due after deducting the net amount realised;
(b) shall account to the liquidator for any surplus
remaining from the net amount realised after
satisfaction of the debt, including interest payable
in respect of that debt up to the time of its satisfaction
and after making any proper payments to the holder
of any other charge over the property subject to the
charge.
(4) If a secured creditor values the security and claims as
a secured creditor, the valuation and claim shall be made in
the prescribed form and shall—
(a) contain full particulars of the valuation and claim;
(b) contain full particulars of the charge including the
date on which it was given; and
(c) identify any documents that substantiate the claim
and the charge,
and the provisions of sections 359, 360 and 362 shall apply
to any claim as a secured creditor.
(5) The liquidator may—
(a) require production of any document referred to in
paragraph (c) of subsection (4); and
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 263
(b) require a claim under subsection (4) to be verified
by affidavit.
(6) Where a claim is made by a secured creditor under
subsection (4), the liquidator shall either—
(a) accept the valuation and claim; or
(b) reject the valuation and claim in whole or in part,
but—
(i) where a valuation and claim is rejected in
whole or in part, the creditor may make a
revised valuation and claim within ten
working days of receiving notice of the
rejection; and
(ii) the liquidator may if he subsequently
considers that a valuation and claim was
wrongly rejected in whole or in part, revoke
or amend that decision.
(7) Where the liquidator—
(a) accepts a valuation and claim under paragraph (a)
of subsection (6);
(b) accepts a revised valuation and claim under sub-
paragraph (i) of paragraph (b) of subsection (6); or
(c) accepts a valuation and claim on revoking or
amending a decision to reject a claim under sub-
paragraph (ii) of paragraph (b) of subsection (6),
the liquidator shall unless the secured creditor has realised
the property, redeem the security on payment of the amount
of the claim or the assessed value, whichever is the less.
264 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(8) The liquidator may at any time by notice in writing,
require a secured creditor within twenty working days after
receipt of the notice—
(a) to elect which of the powers referred to in subsection
(1) the creditor whishes to exercise; and
(b) if the creditor elects to exercise the power referred to
in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of that subsection,
to exercise the power within that period.
(9) A secured creditor on whom notice has been served
under subsection (8) and who fails to comply with the notice
shall be taken to have surrendered the charge to the liquidator
under paragraph (c) of subsection (1) for the general benefit
of creditors, and may claim in the liquidation as an unsecured
creditor for the whole debt.
(10) A secured creditor who has surrendered a charge
under paragraph (c) of subsection (1) or who is deemed to
have surrendered a charge under subsection (9) may, with the
leave of the court or the liquidator and subject to such terms
and conditions as the court or the liquidator thinks fit, at any
time before the liquidator has realised the property charged—
(a) withdraw the surrender and rely on the charge; or
(b) submit a new claim under this section.
(11) Every person who—
(a) makes or authourises the making of a claim under
subsection (4) that is false or misleading in a material
particular knowing it to be false or misleading; or
(b) omits or authorises the omission from a claim under
subsection (4) of any matter knowing that the
omission makes the claim false or misleading in a
material particular,
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 265
shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding one million rupees or to a term of
imprisonment not exceeding five years or to both such fine
and imprisonment.
359. (1) The amount of a claim shall be ascertained as Ascertainment of
at the date of commencement of the winding up of the amount of claim.
company.
(2) The amount of a claim based on debt or liability
denominated in a currency other than Sri Lankan currency,
shall be converted into Sri Lankan currency at the rate of
exchange applicable at the close of the date of commencement
of the winding up of the company.
360. (1) If a claim is subject to a contingency or is for Claim not of an
damages or, if for some other reason the amount of the claim ascertained
is not certain, the liquidator shall make an estimate of the amount.
amount of the claim and give notice of that estimate to the
creditor.
(2) On the application of a claimant who is aggrieved by
an estimate made by the liquidator, the court shall determine
the amount of the claim.
361. Nothing in this Part of this Act shall limit or affect Fines, penalties,
the recovery of— or recoveries.
(a) a fine imposed on a company whether before or after
the commencement of the winding up of the
company, for the commission of an offence;
(b) a monetary penalty payable to the State imposed on
a company by a court whether before or after the
commencement of the winding up of the company,
for the breach of any enactment;
(c) costs ordered to be paid by the company in relation
to proceedings for the offence or breach; or
(d) all provident fund dues, employees trust fund dues
and gratuity payments accrued due, prior the
securing of any assets from the sale proceeds of such
secured assets.
266 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Claims relating 362. (1) A claim in respect of a debt that but for the
to debts payable winding up, would not be payable until a date that is more
after
than six months after the commencement of the winding up,
commencement
of winding up. shall be treated for the purposes of this Part of this Act, as a
claim for the present value of the debt.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the present value
of a debt shall be determined by deducting from the amount
of the debt, interest at the prescribe rate for the period from
the date of commencement of the winding up to the date
when the debt is due.
Mutual credit 363. (1) Where there have been mutual credits, mutual
and set-off. debts or other mutual dealing between a company and a
person who seeks or but for the operation of this section,
would seek to have a claim admitted in the winding up of the
company—
(a) an account shall be taken of what is due from one
party to the other in respect of those credits, debts,
or dealings;
(b) an amount due from one party shall be set-off against
an amount due from the other party; and
(c) only the balance of the account shall be claimed in
the winding up or be payable to the company, as the
case may be.
(2) This section shall not apply to an amount paid or
payable by a shareholder—
(a) as the consideration or part of the consideration for
the issue of a share; or
(b) in satisfaction of a call in respect of an outstanding
liability of the shareholder, made by the board or by
the liquidator.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 267
364. (1) The amount of a claim may include interest up Interest on
to the commencement of the winding up— claims.
(a) at such rate as may be specified or contained in any
contract that makes provision for the payment of
interest on that amount; or
(b) in the case of a judgment debt, at such rate as is
payable on the judgment debt.
(2) If any surplus assets remain after the payment of all
admitted claims, interest shall be paid at the prescribed rate
on those claims from the date of commencement of the
winding up to the date on which each claim is paid. If the
amount of the surplus assets is insufficient to pay interest in
full on all claims, payment shall abate rateably among all
claims.
(3) If any surplus assets remain after the payment of interest
in accordance with subsection (2), interest shall be paid on
all admitted claims referred to in subsection (1), from the
commencement of the winding up to the date on which the
claim is paid, at the difference between the rate referred to in
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of that subsection, as the case
may be, and the prescribed rate. If the amount of the surplus
assets is insufficient to pay interest in full on all claims,
payment shall abate rateably among all claims.
365. (1) The liquidator shall pay out of the assets of the Preferential
company the expenses, fees, and claims set out in the Ninth claims.
Schedule to the extent and in the order of priority specified
in that Schedule and that Schedule shall apply to the payment
of those expenses, fees, and claims according to its tenor.
(2) Without limiting paragraph 7(b) of the Ninth Schedule,
the terms “assets” in subsection (1) shall not include assets
subject to a charge, unless—
(a) the charge is surrendered or taken to be surrendered
or redeemed under section 358; or
268 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(b) the charge was when created, a floating charge in
respect of those assets.
Claims of other 366. (1) After paying preferential claims in accordance
creditors and with section 365, the liquidator shall apply the assets of the
distribution of company in satisfaction of all other claims.
surplus assets.
(2) The claims referred to in subsection (1) shall rank
equally among themselves and shall be paid in full, unless
the assets are insufficient to meet them, in which case payment
shall abate rateably among all claims.
(3) Where before the commencement of the winding up,
a creditor agrees to accept a lower priority in respect of a debt
than that which it would otherwise have under this section,
nothing in this section shall prevent the agreement from
having effect according to its terms.
(4) Subject to section 364, after paying the claims referred
to in subsection (1), the liquidator shall distribute the
company’s surplus assets—
(a) in accordance with the provisions contained in the
company’s articles; or
(b) if the company’s articles do not contain provisions
for the distribution of surplus assets, in accordance
with the provisions of this Act.
(5) The provisions of the Tenth Schedule shall apply in
relation to the payment of claims referred to in
subsection (1).
VOIDABLE TRANSACTIONS
Transactions 367. (1) A transaction by a company is voidable on the
having application of the liquidator, if the transaction —
preferential
effect.
(a) took place—
(i) at a time when the company was unable to
pay its debts as they fell due; and
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 269
(ii) within the specified period; and
(b) enabled another person to receive more towards
satisfaction of a debt than the person would otherwise
have received or be likely to have received in the
liquidation.
(2) Unless the contrary is proved, for the purposes of
subsection (1), a transaction that took place within the restricted
period is presumed to have been made at a time when the
company was unable to pay its debts as they fell due.
(3) A transaction with a person shall not be set aside under
this section, unless the company was influenced in entering
into the transaction by a desire to produce in relation to that
person, the effect mentioned in paragraph (b) of subsection(1).
(4) A company which has entered into a transaction with
any connected person is presumed, unless the contrary is
shown, to have been influenced by a desire to produce in
relation to that person, the effect mentioned in paragraph (b)
of subsection (1).
368. (1) A charge over any property or undertaking of a Voidable charge.
company is voidable on the application of the liquidator, if
the charge was given within the specified period, unless—
(a) the charge secures—
(i) money actually advanced or paid, or the actual
price or value of property sold or supplied to
the company, or any other valuable
consideration given in good faith by the
grantee of the charge at the time of, or at any
time after the giving of the charge; and
(ii) any interest payable on an amount referred
to in sub-paragraph (i);
(b) immediately after the charge was given, the company
was able to pay its debts as they fell due; or
270 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(c) the charge is in substitution for a charge given before
the specified period.
(2) Unless the contrary is proved, a company giving a
charge within the restricted period is presumed to have been
unable to pay its debts as they fell due immediately after
giving the charge.
(3) The provisions of paragraph (c) of subsection (1) shall
not apply to the extent that —
(a) the amount secured by the substituted charge
exceeds the amount secured by the existing charge;
or
(b) the value of the property subject to the substituted
charge at the date of the substitution, exceeds the
value of the property subject to the existing charge
at that date.
(4) Nothing in subsection (1) shall apply to a charge given
by a company that secures the unpaid purchase price of
property and any interest payable on that amount, whether or
not the charge is given over that property, if the instrument
creating the charge is executed not later than thirty days after
the sale of the property or in the case of the sale of an estate or
interest in land, not later than thirty days after the final
settlement of the sale.
(5) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of subsection (1)
and subsection (4), where any charge was given by the
company within the period specified in subsection (1), all
payments received by the grantee of the charge after it was
given shall be deemed to have been appropriated so far as
may be necessary—
(a) towards repayment of money actually advanced or
paid by the grantee to the company on or after the
giving of the charge;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 271
(b) towards payment of the actual price or value of
property sold by the grantee to the company on or
after the giving of the charge;
(c) towards payment of any other liability of the
company to the grantee in respect of any other
valuable consideration given in good faith on or
after the giving of the charge; or
(d) towards interest payable on any amount referred to
in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c).
369. (1) A transaction by a company is voidable on the Uncommercial
application of the liquidator, if — transactions.
(a) the transaction took place within the specified
period;
(b) the transaction was an uncommercial transaction;
(c) when the transaction took place, the company—
(i) was unable to pay its due debts;
(ii) was engaged or about to engage in business
for which its financial resources were grossly
inadequate; or
(iii) incurred an obligation knowing that the
company would not be able to perform the
obligation when required to do so.
(2) A transaction by a company is an “uncommercial
transaction” if, and only if, a reasonable person in the
company’s circumstances would not have entered into the
transaction having regard to—
(a) the benefits (if any) to the company of entering into
the transaction;
272 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(b) the detriment to the company of entering to the
transaction;
(c) the respective benefits to the other parties to the
transaction; and
(d) any other relevant matters.
(3) A transaction may be an uncommercial transaction
for the purposes of this section—
(a) whether or not a creditor of the company is a party
to the transaction; and
(b) even if the transaction is given effect to or is required
to be given effect to, because of an order made by a
court.
(4) Unless the contrary is proved for the purposes of
subsection (1), a transaction that took place within the
restricted period is presumed to have been made at a time
when the company was unable to pay its debts as they fell
due.
Procedure 370. (1) A liquidator who wishes to set aside a
for setting transaction that is voidable under section 367 or section 369
aside or a charge that is voidable under section 368 shall—
voidable
transactions
(a) file in the court a notice by way of a motion to that
and charges.
effect specifying the transaction or charge to be set
aside and, in the case of a transaction, the property
or value which the liquidator whishes to recover,
and setting out the effect of subsections (2), (3) and
(4) of this section ; and
(b) serve a copy of the notice as filed in court under
paragraph (a), on the other party to the transaction
or the grantee of the charge and or every other person
from whom the liquidator wishes to recover the
property or value.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 273
(2) A person —
(a) who would be affected by the setting aside of the
transaction or charge specified in the notice; and
(b) who considers that the transaction or charge is not
voidable,
may apply to the court for an order that the transaction or
charge, be not set aside.
(3) Unless a person on whom the notice was served has
applied to the court under subsection (2), the transaction or
charge shall be deemed to be set aside on the twentieth
working day after the date of service of the notice.
(4) If one or more persons have applied to the court under
subsection (2), the transaction or charge shall be deemed to
be set aside on the day on which the last application is finally
determined, unless the court orders otherwise.
371. If a transaction or charge is set aside under section Other orders.
370, the court may make one or more of the following orders:–
(a) an order requiring a person to pay to the liquidator
in respect of benefits received by that person as a
result of the transaction or charge, such sums as
fairly represent those benefits;
(b) an order requiring property transferred to a person
as part of the transaction to be restored to the
company;
(c) an order requiring property to be vested in the
company if that property represents the application
either of the proceeds of sale of property or of money
so transferred;
(d) an order releasing in whole or in part a debt incurred
or a guarantee or charge given by the company;
274 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(e) an order declaring an agreement constituting,
forming part of or relating to the transaction or
charge or specified provisions of such an agreement,
to have been void at and after the time when the
agreement was made or at and after a specified later
time;
(f) an order varying such an agreement in the manner
specified in the order and if the court thinks fit,
declaring the agreement to have had effect as so
varied at and after the time when the agreement was
made or at and after a specified later time;
(g) an order declaring such an agreement or specified
provisions of such an agreement to be unenforceable;
(h) an order requiring security to be given for the
discharge of an order made under this section;
(i) an order specifying the extent to which a person
affected by the setting aside of a transaction or by
an order made under this section, is entitled to claim
as a creditor in the liquidation.
Additional 372. (1) The setting aside of a transaction or an order
provisions made under section 371 shall not affect the title or interest of
relating to
a person in property, which that person has acquired—
setting aside
of
transactions (a) from a person other than the company;
and charges.
(b) for valuable consideration ; and
(c) in good faith.
(2) The setting aside of a charge or an order made under
section 371 shall not affect the title or interest of a person in
property which that person has acquired—
(a) as the result of the exercise of a power of sale by the
grantee of the charge;
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 275
(b) for valuable consideration; and
(c) in good faith.
(3) Recovery by the liquidator of property or its
equivalent value, whether under section 371 or any other
section of this Act or under any other enactment or in equity
or otherwise, may be denied wholly or in part if—
(a) the person from whom recovery is sought received
the property in good faith and has altered his
position in the reasonably held belief that the
transfer to that person was validly made; and
(b) in the opinion of the court, it is inequitable to order
recovery or recovery in full.
373. (1) In sections 367 and 369 “transaction” in relation Interpretation in
to a company, includes— relation to
preferences &.
(a) a conveyance or transfer or any other disposition of
property by the company;
(b) the giving of a security or charge over the property
of the company;
(c) the incurring of an obligation by the company;
(d) the acceptance by the company of execution under
a judicial proceeding;
(e) the payment of money by the company including
the payment of money under a judgment or order of
a court.
(2) For the purposes of sections 367, 368 and 369
“specified period” means—
(a) in the case of a transaction entered into with or a
charge granted to a connected person—
(i) the period of two years before the
commencement of the winding up; and
276 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(ii) in the case of a company that is being wound
up by the court, the period of two years before
the filing of the petition in the court, together
with the period commencing on the date of
the filing of that petition and ending on the
date on which the order of the court was made;
(b) in any other case—
(i) the period of one year before the
commencement of the winding up; and
(ii) in the case of a company that is being wound
up by the court, the period of one year before
the filing of the petition in the court, together
with the period commencing on the date of
the filing of that petition and ending on the
date on which the order of the court was made.
(3) For purposes of subsection (4) and of section 367, a
person is a “connected person”, if that person is—
(a) a person who was at the time of the transaction, a
director of the company or a nominee or relative of
or a trustee for, or a trustee for a relative of, a director
of the company;
(b) a person or a relative of a person, who at the time of
the transaction, had control of the company;
(c) another company that was at the time of the
transaction, controlled by a director of the company
or a nominee or relative of or a trustee for, or a trustee
for a relative of, a director of the company;
(d) another company that was at the time of the
transaction, a related company.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 277
(4) For the purposes of sections 367, 368 and 369
“restricted period” means—
(a) the period of one moth before the commencement
of the winding up; and
(b) in the case of a company that is being wound up by
the court, the period of one month before the filing
of the petition in the court together with the period
commencing on the date of the filing of that petition
and ending on the date on which the order of the
court was made.
MALPRACTICE BEFORE WINDING UP AND LIABILITY OF OFFICERS
374. (1) When a company is wound up, a person who is Fraud &c. in
a past or present officer of the company is deemed to have anticipation of
committed an offence if, within the two years preceding the winding up.
commencement of the winding up, he has—
(a) concealed any part of the company’s property to the
value of ten thousand rupees or more or concealed
any debt due to or from the company;
(b) fraudulently removed any part of the company’s
property to the value of ten thousand rupees or more;
(c) concealed, destroyed, mutilated or falsified any book
or document affecting or relating to the company’s
property or affairs;
(d) made any false entry in any book or document
affecting or relating to the company’s property or
affairs;
(e) fraudulently parted with, altered or made any
omission in any document affecting or relating to
the company’s property or affairs;
278 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(f) pawned, pledged or disposed of any property of the
company which has been obtained on credit and
has not been paid for, unless the pawning, pledging
or disposal was in the ordinary course of the
company’s business;
(g) made or caused to be made any gift or transfer of or
charge on, or has caused or connived at the levying
of any execution against the company’s property,
with the intent of defrauding the company’s
creditors; or
(h) concealed or removed any part of the company’s
property since or within two months before the date
of any unsatisfied judgment or order for the payment
of money obtained against the company, with the
intent of defrauding the company’s creditors.
(2) It is a defence—
(a) for a person charged under paragraph (a) or (f) of
subsection (1), to prove that he had no intent to
defraud;
(b) for a person charged under paragraph (c) or (d) of
subsection (1), to prove that he had no intent to
conceal the state of affairs of the company or to
defeat the law.
(3) A person who commits an offence under subsection
(1) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one
million rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Fraudulent 375. (1) Where any business of a company that has been
trading. wound up has been carried on with intent to defraud creditors
of the company or creditors of any other person or for any
fraudulent purpose, every person who was knowingly a party
to the carrying on of the business in that manner, shall be
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 279
deemed to have committed an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding one million rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both
such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Where in the course of the winding up of a company it
appears that any business of the company has been carried on
with intent to defraud creditors of the company or creditors of
any other person or for any fraudulent purpose, the court may,
on the application of the liquidator or any creditor of the
company, declare that any persons who were knowingly parties
to the carrying on of the business in that manner, shall be—
(a) liable to make such contribution to the company’s
assets; or
(b) personally responsible for such debts or other
liabilities of the company,
as the court may think fit.
376. (1) Where in the course of the winding up of a Power of court
company it appears to the court that a person who has taken to require
part in the formation or promotion of the company or a past persons to repay
money or return
or present director, manager, liquidator or receiver of the
property.
company, has misapplied or retained or become liable or
accountable for money or property of the company, or been
guilty of negligence, default or breach of duty or trust in
relation to the company, the court may, on the application of
the liquidator or a creditor or shareholder—
(a) inquire into the conduct of the promoter, director,
manager, liquidator, or receiver; and
(b) order that person—
(i) to repay or restore the money or property or
any part of it with interest at a rate the court
thinks just; or
280 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(ii) to contribute such sum to the assets of the
company by way of compensation as the court
thinks just; or
(c) where the application is made by a creditor, order
that person to pay or transfer the money or property
or any part of it with interest at a rate the court thinks
just, to the creditor.
(2) The provisions of this section shall have effect even
though the conduct may constitute an offence under this
Act.
(3) Where an order for payment of money is made under
this section, it shall for the purposes of the Insolvency
Ordinance (Cap. 97), be deemed to be a judgment for the
recovery of a debt or money demand referred to in section 12
of that Ordinance.
Disclaimer of 377. (1) Where any part of the property of a company
onerous which is being wound up consists of land of any tenure
property.
burdened with onerous covenants of shares or stock in
companies, unprofitable contracts or of any other property
that is unsaleable or not readily saleable, by reason of its
binding the possessor thereof to the performance of any
onerous act, or to the payment of any sum of money, the
liquidator of the company, notwithstanding that he has
endeavoured to sell or has taken possession of the property,
or exercised any act of ownership in relation thereto, may,
with the leave of the court and subject to the provisions of
this section, by writing signed by him at any time within
twelve months from the date of commencement of the winding
up or such extended period as may be allowed by the court,
disclaim the property:
Provided that, where any such property has not come to
the knowledge of the liquidator within one month from the
date of commencement of the winding up, the power of
disclaiming the property under the provisions of this section
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 281
may be exercised at any time within twelve months from the
date he has become aware thereof, or such extended period as
may be allowed by the court.
(2) The disclaimer shall operate to determine as from the
date of the disclaimer, the rights, interest, and liabilities of
the company and the property of the company, in or in respect
of the property disclaimed, but shall not, except so far as is
necessary for the purpose of releasing the company and the
property of the company from liability, affect the rights or
liabilities of any other person.
(3) The court before or on granting leave to disclaim,
may require such notices to be given to persons interested
and impose such terms as a condition of granting such leave
and make such other order in the matter, as the court thinks
just.
(4) The liquidator shall not be entitled to disclaim any
property under the provisions of this section, in any case
where an application in writing has been made to him by any
person interested in the property requiring him to decide
whether he will or will not disclaim, and the liquidator has
not, within a period of twenty-eight days from the date of
receipt of the application or such further period as may be
allowed by the court, given notice to the applicant that he
intends to make an application to the court for leave to
disclaim, and in the case of a contract, where the liquidator
upon receipt of an application as aforesaid, does not within
the said period or further period, disclaim the contract, the
company shall be deemed to have adopted it.
(5) The court may on the application of any person, who
is, as against the liquidator, entitled to the benefit or subject
to the burden of a contract made with the company, make an
order rescinding the contract on such terms as to payment by
or to either party of damages for the non performance of the
contract, or otherwise as the court thinks just, and any
damages payable under such order to any such person may
be proved by him as a debt in the winding up.
282 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(6) The court may, on an application by any person who
either claims any interest in any disclaimed property or is
under any liability not discharged by this Act in respect of
any disclaimed property and on hearing any such person as it
thinks fit, make an order for the vesting of the property in or
the delivery of the property to any persons entitled thereto,
or to whom it may seem just that the property should be
delivered by way of compensation for such liability as
aforesaid or a trustee for him, and on such terms as the court
thinks just, and on any such vesting order being made, the
property comprised therein shall vest accordingly in the
person therein named in that behalf without any conveyance
or assignment for the purpose:
Provided that, where the property disclaimed is of a
leasehold nature, the court shall not make a vesting order in
favour of any person claiming under the company, whether
as sub-lessee or as mortgagee, except upon the terms of making
that person—
(a) subject to the same liabilities and obligations as
those to which the company was subject under the
lease in respect of the property at the date of
commencement of the winding up; or
(b) where the court thinks fit, subject only to the same
liabilities and obligations, as if the lease had been
assigned to that person at that date,
and in either event (if the case so requires) as if the lease had
comprised only the property comprised in the vesting order,
and any sub-lessee or mortgagee declining to accept a vesting
order upon such terms shall be excluded from all interest in
and security upon, the property, and where there is no person
claiming under the company who is willing to accept an
order upon such terms, the court shall have power to vest the
estate and interest of the company in the property in any
person liable either personally or in a representative character,
and either by himself or jointly with the company to perform
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 283
the lessor’s convenants in the lease, freed and discharged
from all estates, encumbrances and interests created therein
by the company.
(7) Any person injured by the operation of a disclaimer
under the provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a
creditor of the company to the amount of the injury, and may
accordingly prove the amount as a debt in the winding up.
378. (1) Where a creditor has issued execution against Restriction of
the goods or lands of a company or has attached any debt due rights of creditor
as to execution
to the company and the company is subsequently wound up,
or attachment in
he shall not be entitled to retain the benefit of the execution
case of company.
of the company, unless he has completed the execution or
attachment before the date of commencement of the winding
up:
Provided that—
(a) where any creditor has had notice of a meeting
having been called at which a resolution for
voluntary winding up is to be proposed, the date on
which the creditor so had notice shall for the
purposes of the preceding provisions, be substituted
for the date of commencement of the winding up;
(b) a person who purchases in good faith under a sale
by order of court any goods of a company on which
an execution has been levied, shall in all cases
acquire a good title to them against the liquidator;
(c) the rights conferred by the provisions of this
subsection on the liquidator may be set aside by the
court in favour of the creditor, to such extent and
subject to such terms as the court may think fit.
(2) For the purposes of this section, an execution against
goods shall be taken to be completed by seizure and sale,
and an attachment of a debt shall be deemed to be completed
284 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
by receipt of the debts, and an execution against land shall
be deemed to be completed by seizure, and in the case of an
equitable interest, by the appointment of a receiver.
(3) In this section the expression “goods” includes all
movable property.
(4) Nothing this section shall apply to an execution
process or attachment against any property by or for the
benefit of a creditor, who is entitled to a charge in respect of
that property.
Duty of fiscal as 379. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3),
to goods taken in where any goods of a company are taken in execution and
execution.
before the sale thereof or the completion of the execution, by
receipt or recovery of the full amount of the levy, notice is
served on the Fiscal that a provisional liquidator has been
appointed or that a winding up order has been made or that a
resolution for voluntary winding up has been passed, the
Fiscal shall on being so required, deliver the goods and any
money seized or received in part satisfaction of the execution
to the liquidator, but the costs of the execution shall be a first
charge on the goods or money so delivered, and the liquidator
may sell the goods or a sufficient part thereof for the purpose
of satisfying that charge.
(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), where
under an execution in respect of a judgment for a sum
exceeding two hundred and fifty rupees, the goods of a
company are sold or money is paid in order to avoid the sale,
the Fiscal shall deduct the costs of the execution from the
proceeds of the sale or the money paid and retain the balance
for fourteen days, and if within that time notice is served on
him of a petition for the winding up of the company having
been presented or of a meeting having been called at which
there is to be proposed a resolution for voluntary winding up
of the company and an order is made or a resolution is passed,
as the case may be, for the winding up of the company, the
Fiscal shall pay the balance to the liquidator who shall be
entitled to retain it as against the execution creditor.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 285
(3) The rights conferred by the provisions of this section
on the liquidator may be set aside by the court in favour of
the creditor, to such extent and subject to such terms as the
court may think fit.
(4) In this section the expression “goods” includes all
movable property and the expression “Fiscal” includes any
officer charged with the execution of a writ or other process.
(5) Nothing in this section shall apply to an execution
process or attachment against any property by or for the
benefit of a creditor, who is entitled to a charge in respect of
that property.
OFFENCES ANTECEDENT TO OR IN THE COURSE OF WINDING UP
380. (1) Where any person being a past or present officer Offences by
of a company which at the time of the commission of the officers of
alleged offence is being wound up whether by or under the companies in
liquidation.
supervision of the court or voluntarily, or is subsequently
ordered to be wound up by the court or subsequently passes
a resolution for voluntary winding up—
(a) does not to the best of his knowledge and belief
fully and truly make known to the liquidator all the
property, movable and immovable, of the company,
and how and to whom and for what consideration
and when the company disposed of any part thereof,
except such part as has been disposed of in the
ordinary course of the business of the company;
(b) does not deliver to the liquidator or as he directs, all
such part of the movable and immovable property
of the company as in his custody or under his control,
and which he is required by law to deliver;
(c) does not deliver to the liquidator or as he directs, all
books and papers in his custody or under his control
belonging to the company and which he is required
by law to deliver;
286 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(d) makes any material omission in any statement
relating to the affairs of the company;
(e) knowing or believing that a false debt has been
proved by any person under the winding up, fails
for the period of one month to inform the liquidator
thereof;
(f) after the date of commencement of the winding up,
prevents the production of any book or paper
affecting or relating to the property or affairs of the
company;
(g) after the date of commencement of the winding up
or at any meeting of the creditors of the company
within the twelve months immediately prior to the
date of commencement of the winding up, attempts
to account for any part of the property of the
company by fictious losses or expenses;
(h) has within the twelve months immediately prior to
the date of commencement of the winding up or at
any time thereafter, by any false representation or
other fraud, obtained any property for or on behalf
of the company on credit which the company does
not subsequently pay for;
(i) within the twelve months immediately prior to the
date of commencement of the winding up or at any
time thereafter, under the false pretense that the
company is carrying on its business, obtains on credit
for or on behalf of the company, any property which
the company does not subsequently pay for; or
(j) is guilty of any false representation or other fraud
for the purpose of obtaining the consent of the
creditors of the company or any of them, to an
agreement with reference to the affairs of the
company or to the winding up,
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 287
shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction, in the
case of the offences referred to in paragraphs (h), (i) and (j), be
liable to a fine not exceeding one million rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both
such fine and imprisonment, and in the case of any other
offence under the provisions of this subsection, be liable to a
fine not exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both
such fine and imprisonment:
Provided that it shall be a good defence to a charge under
the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (i), for the
accused to prove that he had no intent to defraud, and to a
charge under the provisions of paragraph (f), to prove that he
had no intent to conceal the state of affairs of the company or
to defeat the law.
(2) For the purposes of this section, the expression
“officer” shall include any person in accordance with whose
directions or instructions the directors of a company have
been accustomed to act.
381. (1) Where in the course of winding up of a Liability where
company it is shown that proper books of accounts were not proper accounts
kept by the company throughout the period of two years are not kept.
immediately preceding the date of commencement of the
winding up, or the period between the incorporation of the
company and the date of commencement of the winding up,
whichever is the shorter, every officer of the company who is
in default shall, unless he shows that he acted honestly and
that in the circumstances in which the business of the company
was carried on the default was inevitable, be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding one hundred thousand rupees.
(2) For the purposes of this section, proper books of
accounts shall be deemed not to have been kept in the case of
any company, if there have not been kept such books or
accounts as are necessary to exhibit and explain the
transactions and financial position of the trade or business of
288 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
the company, including books containing entries from day
to day in sufficient detail of all cash received and cash paid,
and where the trade or business has involved dealing in goods,
statement or annual stock-takings and (except in the case of
goods sold by way of ordinary retail trade) of all goods sold
and purchased, showing the goods and the buyers and sellers
thereof in sufficient detail to enable those goods and those
buyers and sellers to be identified.
Prosecution of 382. (1) Where it appears to the court in the course of a
delinquent winding up by or subject to the supervision of the court, that
officers and any past or present officer or any shareholder of the company
members of the
has been guilty of any offence in relation to the company for
company.
which he is criminally liable, the court may, either on the
application of any person interested in the winding up or of
its own motion, direct the liquidator either himself to
prosecute the offender or to refer the matter to the Attorney-
General.
(2) Where it appears to the liquidator in the course of a
voluntary winding up that any past or present office or any
shareholder of the company has been guilty of any offence in
relation to the company for which he is criminally liable, he
shall forthwith report the matter to the Attorney-General and
shall furnish to him such information and give to him such
access to and facilities for inspecting and taking copies of
any documents, being information or documents in
possession or under the control of the liquidator and relating
to the matter in question, as he may require.
(3) Where any report is made under the provisions of
subsection (2) to the Attorney-General, he may if he thinks
fit, refer the matter to the Registrar for inquiry, and the Registrar
shall thereupon investigate the matter and may where he
thinks it expedient, make an application to court for an order
conferring on him or any person designated by him for the
purpose with respect to the company concerned, all such
powers of investigating the affairs of the company as are
provided by this Act in the case of a winding up the court.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 289
(4) Where on any report to the Attorney-General under
the provisions of subsection (2), it appears to the Attorney-
General that the case is not one in which proceedings ought
to be taken by him, he shall inform the liquidator accordingly
and thereupon, subject to the previous sanction of the court,
the liquidator may himself take proceedings against the
offender.
(5) Where it appears to the court in the course of voluntary
winding up that any past or present officer or any shareholder
of the company has been guilty as aforesaid, and that no
report with respect to the matter has been made by the
liquidator to the Attorney-General under the provisions of
subsection (2), the court may, on the application of any person
interested in the winding up or of its own motion, direct the
liquidator to make such report, and on a report being made
accordingly, the provisions of this section shall have effect
as though the report has been made in pursuance of the
provision of subsection (2).
(6) If where any matter is reported or referred to the
Attorney-General under the provisions of this section, the
Attorney-General considers that the case is one in which a
prosecution ought to be instituted, he shall institute
proceedings accordingly, and it shall be the duty of the
liquidator and of every officer and agent of the company past
and present (other than the accused in the proceedings) to
give him all assistance in connection with the prosecution
which he is reasonably able to give.
For the purposes of this subsection, the expression “agent”
in relation to a company shall be deemed to include any
banker or attorney-at-law of the company and any person
employed by the company as auditor, whether that person is
or is not an officer of the company.
(7) Where any person fails or neglects to give assistance
in the manner required by subsection (6), the court may on
the application of the Attorney-General, direct that person to
comply with the requirements of the said subsection, and
290 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
where any such application is made with respect to a
liquidator, the court may, unless it appears that the failure or
neglect to comply was due to the liquidator not having in his
hands sufficient assets of the company to enable him so to
do, direct that the costs of the application shall be borne by
the liquidator personally.
SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS AS TO WINDING UP
Qualifications 383. (1) None of the following persons may be
of appointed or act as a liquidator of a company :—
liquidators.
(a) a person below eighteen years of age;
(b) a creditor of the company in liquidation;
(c) a person who has within the two years immediately
preceding the commencement of the winding up,
been a shareholder, director, auditor, or receiver of
the company or of a related company;
(d) an undischarged bankrupt;
(e) a person who has been adjudged to be of unsound
mind under the provision of the Mental Diseases
Ordinance (Cap. 227);
(f) a person in respect of whom an order has been made
under section 468;
(g) a person who is prohibited from being a director or
promoter of or being concerned or taking part in the
management of a company under section 186 of the
Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982, or who would be so
prohibited, but for the repeal of that Act; or
(h) a person who is prohibited from being a director or
promoter of or being concerned or taking part in the
management of a company under section 213 or
214.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 291
(2) A body corporate shall not be appointed or act as a
liquidator.
(3) Every person who acts in contravention of the
provisions of subsection (1) or subsection (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding two hundred thousand rupees.
384. Any person who gives or agrees or offers to give to Corrupt
any shareholder or creditor of a company any valuable inducement
affecting
consideration with a view to securing his own appointment
appointment as
or nomination or to securing or preventing the appointment liquidator.
or nomination of some person other than himself as the
company’s liquidator, shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred
thousand rupees.
385. (1) Where any liquidator, who has made any Enforcement of
default in filing, delivering or making any account, document duty of
liquidator to
or return, as the case may be, or in giving any notice which he
make returns,
is by law required to file, deliver, make or give, fails to make &c.,
good the default within ten working days from the date of
service on him of a notice requiring him to do so, the court
may on an application made to the court by any contributory
or creditor of the company or by the Registrar, make an order
directing the liquidator to make good the default within such
time as may be specified in the order.
(2) Any order made under the provisions of subsection
(1), may provide that all costs of and incidental to the
application shall be borne by the liquidator.
(3) Nothing in this section shall be taken to prejudice the
operation of any written law imposing penalties on a
liquidator in respect of any such default as is referred to in
subsection (1).
292 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Notification that 386. (1) Where a company is being wound up, whether
a company is in by or under the supervision of the court or voluntary, every
liquidation.
invoice, order for goods or business letter issued by or on behalf
of the company or a liquidator of the company or a receiver or
manager of the property of the company, being a document on
or in which the name of the company appears, shall contain a
statement that the company is being wound up.
(2) Where default is made in complying with the
provisions of this section, the company and any of the
following persons who knowingly and willfully authorises
or permits the default, namely, any officer of the company,
any liquidator of the company and any receiver or manager
shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
Exemption of 387. In the case of a winding up by the court or of a
certain creditors’ voluntary winding up of a company—
documents from
stamp duty on
(a) every deed relating solely to movable or immovable
winding up of
companies. property or creating any mortgage, charge or other
encumbrance on, or any estate, right or interest in
any such property which forms part of the assets of
the company and which, after the execution of the
deed, is or remains part of the assets of the company;
and
(b) every power of attorney, proxy paper, writ, order,
certificate, affidavit, bond or other instrument of
writing relating solely to the property of any
company which is being so wound up or to any
proceeding under any such winding up,
shall be exempt form stamp duty.
Books of 388. Where a company is being wound up, all books
company to be and papers of the company and of the liquidators shall, as
evidence. between contributories of the company, be prima facie
evidence of the truth of all matters purporting to be there in
recorded.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 293
389. (1) Where a company has been wound up and is Disposal of
about to be dissolved, the books of the company and of the books and
papers of the
liquidators may be disposed of as follows, that is to say—
company.
(a) in the case of a winding up by or subject to the
supervision of the court, in such a way as the court
directs;
(b) in the case of a shareholders’ voluntary winding up,
in such a way as the company by special resolution
directs, and in the case of a creditors’ voluntary
winding up, in such a way as the committee of
inspection or where there is no such committee, as
the creditors of the company may direct.
(2) After five years from the date of dissolution of the
company no responsibility shall rest on the company, the
liquidators, or any person to whom the custody of the books
and papers has been committed, by reason of any book or
paper not being forthcoming to any person claiming to be
interested therein.
(3) Rules may be made for enabling the Registrar to
prevent, for such period (not exceeding five years from the
date of dissolution of the company) as he thinks fit, the
destruction of the books and papers of a company which has
been wound up, and for enabling any creditor or contributory
of the company to make representations to the Registrar and
to appeal to the Court of Appeal from any direction which
may be given by the Registrar in the matter.
(4) Where any person acts in contravention of any rule
made under the provisions of subsection (3) or of any direction
of the Registrar thereunder, he shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two
hundred thousand rupees.
294 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
Information as to 390. (1) Where the winding up of a company is not
pending
concluded within one year from the date of its
liquidation.
commencement, the liquidator shall at such intervals as may
be prescribed, until the winding up is concluded, send to the
Registrar a statement in the prescribed form and containing
the prescribed particulars with respect to the proceedings in
and position of the liquidation.
(2) Where a liquidator fails to comply with the provisions
of this section, he shall be guilty of an offence and be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.
Resolutions 391. Where a resolution is passed at an adjourned
passed at meeting of any creditors or contributories of a company, the
adjourned
resolution shall for all purposes be treated as having been
meetings of
creditors and passed on the date on which it was in fact passed, and shall
contributories. not be deemed to have been passed on any earlier date.
SUPPLEMENTARY POWERS OF COURT
392. (1) The court may as to all matters relating to the
Meetings to
ascertain wishes winding up of a company, have regard to the wishes of the
of creditors or creditors or contributories of the company as proved to it by
contributories.
any sufficient evidence, and may if it thinks fit for the purpose
of ascertaining those wishes, direct meetings of the creditors
or contributories to be called, held, and conducted in such
manner as the court directs, and may appoint a person to act
as chairman of any such meeting and to report the result
thereof to the court.
(2) In the case of creditors, regard shall be had to the
value of each creditor’s debt.
(3) In the case of contributories, regard shall be had to the
number of votes conferred on each contributory by this Act
or the company’s articles.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 295
PROVISIONS AS TO DISSOLUTION
393. (1) Where a company has been dissolved, the court Power of court
may at any time within two years from the date of the to declare
dissolution of
dissolution on an application being made for the purpose by
company void.
the liquidator of the company, or by any other person who
appears to the court to be interested, make an order upon
such terms as the court thinks fit, declaring the dissolution to
have been void, and thereupon such proceedings may be
taken as might have been taken if the company had not been
dissolved.
(2) It shall be the duty of the person on whose application
the order under the provisions of subsection (1) was made,
within seven days from the date of the order or such further
time as the court may allow, to deliver to the Registrar for
registration a certified copy of such order, and where such
person fails to do so he shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand
rupees.
394. (1) Where the Registrar has reasonable cause to Registrar may
believe that a company is not carrying on business or is in strike off defunct
company from
operation, he may send to the company by post a letter
register.
inquiring whether the company is carrying on business or is
in operation.
(2) Where the Registrar does not within one month of the
date of sending the letter referred to in subsection (1) receive
any answer thereto, he shall within ten working days from
the date of expiry of the said period of one month, send to the
company a letter by registered post referring to the first letter,
and stating that no answer thereto has been received, and
that if an answer is not received to the second letter within
one month from the date thereof, a notice will be published
in the Gazette with a view to striking off the name of the
company from the register.
296 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(3) Where the Registrar under the provisions of subsection
(2), either receives an answer to the effect that the company is
not carrying on business or in operation, or does not within
one month after sending the second letter receive an answer,
he may publish in the Gazette, and send to the company by
post, a notice that at the expiration of three months from the
date of that notice the name of the company specified therein
will, unless cause is shown to the contrary, be stuck off the
register and be dissolved.
(4) Where in the winding up of a company the Registrar
has reasonable cause to believe either that no liquidator is
acting, or that the affairs of the company are fully wound up,
and the returns required to be made by the liquidator under
the provisions of this Act have not been made for a period of
six consecutive months, the Registrar shall publish in the
Gazette and send to the company or the liquidator, if any, a
notice as is referred to in subsection (3).
(5) Upon the expiration of the period specified in the notice
given under the provisions of subsection (4), the Registrar
may, unless cause to the contrary is previously shown by the
company, strike off the name of the company form the register,
and shall publish notice thereof in the Gazette, and upon
such publication the company shall be dissolved:
Provided that—
(a) the liability, if any, of every director, manager and
shareholder of the company shall continue and may
be enforced as if the company had not been
dissolved; and
(b) nothing in the provisions of this subsection shall
affect the power of the court to wind up a company
the name of which has been struck off the register.
(6) Where a company or any shareholder or creditor
thereof is aggrieved by the company having been struck off
the register, the court on an application made by the company
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 297
or shareholder or creditor, as the case may be, before the
expiration of five years from the publication in the Gazette
of the notice referred to in subsection (5) may, if satisfied,
that the company was at the time of the striking off carrying
on business or in operation, or otherwise that it is just that the
name of the company should be restored to the register, order
the name of the company to be restored to the register, and
upon a certified copy of the order being delivered to the
Registrar for registration, the company shall be deemed to
have continued in existence as if its name had not been struck
off the register, and the court may by such order give such
directions and make such provisions as to it seems just for
placing the company and all other persons in the same
position as nearly as may be, as if the name of the company
had not been struck off the register.
(7) A notice to be sent under the provisions of this section
to a liquidator may be addressed to the liquidator at his last
known place of business, and a letter or notice to be sent
under the provisions of this section to a company may be
addressed to the company at its registered office, or where no
office has been registered, to the care of some officer of the
company at the most recent address recorded for that person
in the annual returns or any other documents sent to the
Registrar by the company.
395. Where a company is dissolved, all property and Property of
rights whatsover vested in or held on trust for the company dissolved
immediately before the date of its dissolution (including company to vest
in the State.
leasehold property but not including property held by the
company on trust for any other person) shall, subject to and
without prejudice to any order which may at any time be
made by the court under the provisions of sections 393 and
394, vest in and be at the disposal of the State.
COMPANIES LIQUIDATION ACCOUNT
396. (1) An Account to be called the Companies Establishment of
Liquidation Account, shall be kept by the Registrar with Companies
such bank as may from time to time be approved by the Liquation
Account.
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.
298 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
(2) Whenever the balance standing to the credit of the
Companies Liquidation Account is in the opinion of the
Registrar, in excess of the amount required for the time being
to meet claims under section 397, the Registrar shall notify
the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury of the excess and shall
pay to him, to such account as he may direct, the whole or
any part of that excess which he may require. The Deputy
Secretary to the Treasury may invest the sums paid to him or
any part of them in Government securities, to be held to the
credit of the Companies Liquidation Account.
(3) When any part of the money paid to the Deputy
Secretary to the Treasury under subsection (2) is in the
opinion of the Registrar, required to meet any claim under
section 397, the Registrar shall give notice of that requirement
to the Deputy Secretaty to the Treasury who shall repay the
amount required to the Registrar to the credit of the
Companies Liquidation Account, and may for that purpose
sell any of the securities referred to in subsection (2).
(4) The dividends on investments made under this section
shall be paid into the Companies Liquidation Account.
Payments into 397. (1) Money representing unclaimed assets of a
and out of company standing to the credit of a liquidator shall after
Companies completion of the winding up, be paid to the Registrar to be
Liquidation
credited to the Companies Liquidation Account.
Account.
(2) Money held in the Companies Liquidation Account
may be paid or distributed to any person who would have
been entitled to payment or distribution in the winding up of
a company of any money or surplus assets the proceeds of
which, have been credited to the Companies Liquidation
Account.
(3) Where any funds have been paid into the Companies
Liquidation Account in respect of any company, and that
company subsequently is dissolved, the provisions of section
395 shall apply to those funds.
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 299
398. (1) For the purposes of this section, an “essential Refusal to supply
essential services
service” means—
prohibited.
(a) the retail supply of electricity ;
(b) the supply of water ; and
(c) the supply of telecommunications services.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions contained in any
written law to the contrary or any contract, a supplier of an
essential service shall not—
(a) refuse to supply the service to a liquidator or to a
company in liquidation, by reason of the company’s
default in paying charges due for the service in
relation to a period before the commencement of
the liquidation ; or
(b) make it a condition of the supply of the service to a
liquidator or to a company in liquidation, that
payment be made of outstanding charges due for
the service, in relation to a period before the
commencement of the liquidation.
(3) For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this section
shall prevent the supplier of an essential service from
exercising any right or power under any contract or under
any written law in respect of a failure by a company to pay
charges due for the service, in relation to any period after the
commencement of the liquidation.
(4) The charges incurred by a liquidator for the supply of
an essential service shall be an expense incurred by the
liquidator, for the purposes of sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph
1 of the Ninth Schedule to this Act.
300 Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007
RULES AND FEES
Rules and fees 399. (1) Rules may be made by the Minister to provide
for winding up. for the carrying into effect of the objects of this Act, so far as
it relates to the winding up of companies.
(2) There shall be paid in respect of proceedings under
this Act in relation to the winding up of companies, such
reasonable fees as the Minister may, by regulation, prescribe.
PART XIII
ADMINISTRATORS
APPOINTMENT OF ADMINISTRATOR
Interpretation. 400. In this Part of this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires —
(a) “initial period” means the period beginning from
the date of appointment of the administrator, until—
(i) the date on which a meeting is held under
section 404 ; or
(ii) a receiver is appointed in accordance with
the provisions of subsection (2) of section
402 ; or
(iii) the expiry of twenty working days, or such
longer period as court may allow,
whichever occurs first ; and
(b) references to hire-purchase agreements include
conditional sale agreements, chattel leasing
arrangements and retention of title agreements.
