electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 11 17.
for the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared avoidance of that— doubt.
(a) if an offer and acceptance of an offer has been in whole or in part expressed by means of an electronic record, an electronic signature attached to, or logically associated with, such electronic record shall not be denied legal effect soley on the ground that it is with an electronic signature ; (b) if an electronic communication is used in the formation of a contract, the contract shall not be denied validity or enforceability solely on the ground that an electronic record had been used for such purpose ; (c) the accepted principles of common law relating to contracts that the offeror may prescribe the method of communicating acceptance, shall not be affected by anything contained in this chapter ; (d) a contract formed by the interaction of an automated message system and a natural person or by the interaction of automated message systems, shall not be denied validity or enforceability solely on the ground that there was no review or intervention by a natural person of the final contrct or of each of the actions carried out by the automated message system.
chapter iv certification authority and certification of service providers 18.
(1) there shall be a certification authority designation of a designated by the minister for the purposes of this act in certification authority.
consultation with the minister in charge of the subject of information and communication technology.
12 electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 (2) in designating a certification authority the minister may by order published in the gazette, designate any government department, public corporation, statutory body, institution, or authority or any branch or unit thereof which shall be charged with the implementation of the provisions of this chapter ; the minister shall in making the order take into consideration the capacity of the government department, public corporation, statutory body, institution or authority to be designated in relation to its overall ability to discharge the obligations under this act in ensuring the proper functioning of certification services by accredited certification service providers.
powers of 19.
the certification authority shall have the power certification to– authority.
(a) identify the criteria which will form the basis for accreditation of certification service providers and the qualifications required by them ; (b) hear appeals and specify the procedure to be followed in the granting of accreditation for the purposes of this act ; (c) specify the procedure for the hearing of appeals in the event of a refusal to grant or renew accreditation under section 20, as the case may be ; (d) issue licences or any other form of authorisation to certification service providers to provide prescribed services ; (e) require certification service providers to maintain such records and registers as may be prescribed ; (f) from time to time call for information as may be necessary from certification service providers and issue directions to such certification service providers.
electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 13 20.
(1) no person shall function as an accredited accreditation of certification service provider unless be holds a valid certification certificate of accreditation issued under the sri lanka service accreditation board for conformity assessment act, no. 32 providers.
of 2005.
(2) nothing in this act shall be construed as impeding or in any way restricting the rights of any certification service provider to engage in the business of providing certification services without being accredited.
(3) a certificate of accreditation to a certification service provider may be granted in accordance with provisions of the sri lanka accreditation board for conformity assessment act, no. 32 of 2005, in keeping with the criteria for accreditation specified by the certification authority under paragraph (a) of section 19.
chapter v rules governing evidence 21.
(1) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the applicability of evidence ordinance or any other written law, the following the rules of provisions of this section shall be applicable for the purposes evidence.
of this act.
(2) any information contained in a data message, or any electronic document, electronic record or other communication— (a) touching any fact in issue or relevant fact ; and (b) compiled, received or obtained during the course of any business, trade or profession or other regularly conducted activity, shall be admissible in any proceedings : provided that, direct oral evidence of such fact in issue or relevant fact if available, shall be admissible ; and there is no reason to believe that the information contained in a data message, or any electronic document, electronic record or other communication is unreliable or inaccurate : 14 electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 provided further that, for the purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b), if any information is contained in a data message, electronic document, electronic record or other communication made by a person— (i) who is dead or who by reason of his bodily or mental condition is unfit to attend as a witness ; or (ii) who is outside sri lanka and where reasonable steps have been taken to find such person and he cannot be found ; or (iii) who does not wish to give oral evidence through fear ; or (iv) who is prevented from so giving evidence, evidence relating to such information shall, if available, be admissible.
(3) the courts shall, unless the contrary is proved, presume the truth of information contained in a data message, or in any electronic doucment or electronic record or other communication and in the case of any data message, electronic document, electronic record or other communication made by a person, that the data message, electronic document or electronic record or other communication was made by the person who is purported to have made it and similarly, shall presume the genuineness of any electronic signature or distinctive identification mark therein.
provisions of the 22.
nothing contained in the evidence (special evidence provisions) act, no. 14 of 1995 shall apply to and in relation (special to any data message, electronic document, electronic provisions) act, no. 14 of 1995 record or other document to which the provisions of this act not to apply.
applies.