banking (amendment) act, no. 24 of 2024 39 (7) by the insertion immediately after the definition of the expression “local authority” of the following:- ““minister” means the minister assigned the subject of finance in terms of article 44 or 45 of the constitution;”; (8) by the insertion immediately after the definition of the expression “monetary board” of the following:- ““non-financial subsidiary” means a subsidiary of a licensed commercial bank or a licensed specialised bank which carries out the business other than the business of a ‘financial sector participant’ as defined in the central bank of sri lanka act, no.16 of 2023;”; (9) by the insertion immediately after the definition of the expression “non-resident” of the following:- ““offshore banking business” means the provision of banking business by a licensed commercial bank in any designated foreign currency to non- residents, and to certain residents as may be determined by the central bank, from time to time; “physical presence” means meaningful mind and management located within a country and does not include simple or mere existence of a local agent or low-level staff of such country; ”; (10) by the insertion immediately after the definition “resident” of the following: - 40 banking (amendment) act, no. 24 of 2024 ““shareholder” shall have the same meaning as given in the companies act, no. 07 of 2007; “shell bank” means a bank that has no physical presence in the country in which it is incorporated and licensed, and which is unaffiliated with a financial group that is subject to effective consolidated supervision;”; (11) in the definition of the expression “substantial interest” by the substitution for the words “on behalf of such firm.”
of the words “on behalf of such firm;”; and (12) by the addition immediately after the definition of the expression “substantial interest” of the following: - ““unlawful activity” shall have the same meaning as given in the prevention of money laundering act, no. 5 of 2006.”
amendment of 47.
schedule ii of the principal enactment is hereby schedule ii of amended as follows:- the principal enactment (1) in item (z) thereof, by the substitution for the words “to the buyer.”
of the words “to the buyer;”; and (2) by the addition immediately after item (z), the following:- “(aa) conducting offshore banking business.”.
banking (amendment) act, no. 24 of 2024 41 48.
notwithstanding the repeal of subsection (3c) of special section 76m of the principal enactment by this act, any provision relating to the scheme formulated by the monetary board under subsection schemes (3c) of that section shall continue to be in force until the formulated by liabilities of depositors and creditors of the defaulting bank the monetary board under referred to in that subsection are settled in full in accordance section 76m with the terms and conditions of such scheme.
49.
in the event of any inconsistency between the sinhala sinhala text to and tamil texts of this act, the sinhala text shall prevail.
prevail in case of inconsistency 42 banking (amendment) act, no. 24 of 2024 english acts of the parliament d
c e a p n a r b t e m e p n u t r c o h f a g s o e v d e r a n t m t e
h n e t “ p p rirnatkinagshana piyasa”, department of government printing, no. 118, dr. danister de silva mawatha, colombo 8.