8 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
(6) Where any manufacturer or trader fails or refuses to
comply with an order made under subsection (4) of this
section, such manufacturer or trader shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act, and the sum of money due on the order
as compensation or refund may, on application being made
in that behalf by the Authority to the Magistrate’s Court having
jurisdiction over the place of business or residence of such
manufacturer or trader as the case may be, be recovered in
like manner as a fine imposed by such court, notwithstanding
that such sum may exceed the amount of a fine which that
court may, in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction, impose.
Agreement to 14. (1) The Authority may enter into such written
provide for agreements as it may deem necessary, with any manufacturer
maximum price
or trader or with any association of manufacturers or traders
&c. of goods.
to provide for—
(a) the maximum price above which any goods shall
not be sold;
(b) the standards and specifications of any goods
manufactured, sold or offered for sale ;
(c) any other conditions as to the manufacture, import,
supply, storage, distribution, transportation,
marketing, labelling or sale of any goods.
(2) Every written agreement entered into under
subsection (1) between the Authority and any manufacturer
or trader or with any association of manufacturers or traders,
shall be binding on every authorised distributor of such
manufacturer or trader and every member of such association,
as though he was a party to such agreement and whether or
not he was a member at the time of entering into the agreement.
(3) Every manufacturer or trader or any authorised
distributor of such manufacturer or trader or any association
of manufacturers or traders or any member thereof, who
contravenes any provision of any agreement entered into with
the Authority under subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act.
Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 9
(4) Every agreement entered into with the Authority
under subsection (1), shall be registered with the Authority
and shall contain a schedule giving the name and description
of each authorised distributor of such manufacturer or trader
or members of such association, as the case may be.
(5) Every agreement entered into with the Authority
under subsection (1), shall come into force from the date of
such agreement, unless such agreement provides that the
agreement shall come into force on any subsequent date.
(6) Where the Authority thinks fit, it may cause any
agreement made under this section to be published in the
Gazette. Where an agreement is published in the Gazette, the
production of a copy of the Gazette in which such agreement
is published shall, until the contrary is proved, be proof of the
contents of such agreement.
(7) For the purpose of any prosecution under this section,
a certificate given by the Authority that any person is an
authorised distributor of any manufacturer or trader or is a
member of any association of traders or manufacturers shall
be admissible and be prima facie proof in a court of law that
such person is an authorised distributor of such manufacturer
or trader or a member of such association.
15. (1) No trader who has in his possession or custody Refusal to sell
or under his control any goods for purpose of trade within goods to be an
offence.
Sri Lanka, shall refuse to sell such goods.
(2) In any prosecution of any trader for the contravention
of the provisions of subsection (1), it shall be a sufficient
defence for the accused to prove that —
(a) on the occasion in question, he supplied a reasonable
quantity of the goods, or had not a sufficient quantity
in his possession to supply the quantity;
(b) he carried on business in the goods as a wholesale
trader only, and that the sale of the quantity
demanded by the buyer would have been contrary
to the normal practice of a wholesale business ; or
