22 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
(a) call upon the Authority to submit to the Council its
report on the investigation ; and
(b) hear and determine such application, where the
Council is of opinion that there is sufficient material
in the report to warrant the Council to take up such
application for determination.
PART IV
CONSUMER AFFAIRS COUNCIL
Establishment and 39. (1) There shall be established for the purpose of this
constitution of a Act a Council to be known as the “Consumer Affairs Council”.
Consumer Affairs
Council.
(2) The Council shall consist of the following persons who
shall be appointed by the Minister :—
(a) one person who has had wide experience in the field
of commercial law ;
(b) one person who has had wide experience in the
management of business enterprises ; and
(c) an economist with wide experience in trade practices
and consumer affairs.
(3) The members of the Council shall hold office for a
period of three years and the Minister shall nominate one of
the members to be its Chairman.
(4) The members of the Council shall be paid such
remuneration as may be determined by the Minister, in
consultation with the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance.
(5) There shall be appointed a Secretary to the Council
who shall be responsible for maintaining records of all
proceedings of the Council, and for sending out any notices
required to be sent by the Council under this Act.
Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 23
40. (1) The function of the Council shall be to hear and Function of the
Council.
determine all applications and references made to it under
this Act.
(2) Where a decision of the Council is not unanimous,
the decision of the majority of the members shall be deemed
to be the decision of the Council.
41. (1) Where an application is made to the Council under Order to be made
section 37 or section 38, as the case may be, the Council shall, by the Council.
on being satisfied that —
(a) an anti-competitive practice exists but such anti-
competitive practice does not operate or is not likely
to operate against public interest, by order made in
that behalf, authorise such anti-competitive
practice ; or
(b) ananti-competitive practice exists and that it operates
against public interest, by order made in that behalf,
provide for —
(i) the termination of such anti-competitive
practice in such manner as may be specified
in the order ; and
(ii) such other action as the Council may consider
necessary for the purpose of remedying or
preventing the adverse effects of any anti-
competitive practice.
(2) In determining for the purposes of this section, whether
any anti-competitive practice operates, or is likely to operate,
against public interest, the Council shall take into account all
matters which appear to the Council to be relevant to the matter
under investigation and shall have special regard to the
desirability of —
24 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
(a) maintaining and promoting effective competition
between persons supplying goods and providing
services ;
(b) promoting the interests of consumers, purchasers and
other users of goods and services in respect of the
price and quality of such goods and services and the
variety of goods supplied and services provided in
Sri Lanka; and
(c) promoting through competition the reduction of
costs, the development and use of new techniques
and products and facilitating the entry of new
competitors into existing markets.
(3) Where an application is made to the Council under
section 37 or section 38, as the case may be, it shall be the
duty of the Council to make its order on such application,
within one month of its receipt.
Publication of an 42. The Authority may cause to be published any order
order made under made by the Council under section 41, in such manner as it
section 41.
thinks fit.
Power to issue 43. (1) The Council shall have the power to issue notices
notices to and examine witnesses at any inquiry or investigation
witnesses.
conducted by the Council. Every notice shall be issued under
the hand of the Secretary to the Council.
(2) A notice may be issued by delivering it to the person
named therein, or if that is not practicable, by leaving it at the
last known place of abode of that person.
(3) Every person to whom a notice is issued shall
attend before the Council at the time and place mentioned
therein, and shall give evidence or produce such
documents, records or other things as are required of him and
are in his possession or power, according to the tenor of the
notice.
Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 25
44. (1) The Council shall for the purpose of any inquiry Evidence.
or investigation under this Act have power —
(a) to procure and receive all such evidence written or
oral, and to examine all such persons as witnesses,
as it may think necessary or desirable to procure,
receive or examine ; and
(b) to require the evidence, whether written or oral of
any witness to be given on oath or affirmation and
such oath or affirmation to be that which would be
required of that witness if he was giving evidence in
a court, and to administer an oath or affirmation to
every such witness.
(2) In the conduct of proceedings under this Act, the
Council shall not be bound by any of the provisions of the
Evidence Ordinance.
45. If any person upon whom a notice is issued under Failure to obey a
section 43 — notice issued or to
give evidence &c.
(a) fails without cause which in the opinion of the
Council is reasonable, to appear before the Council
at the time and place mentioned in the notice ;
(b) refuses to be sworn-in or affirmed, or having been
duly sworn-in or affirmed, refuses or fails without
cause which in the opinion of the Council is
reasonable, to answer any questions put to him
relating to the matters being inquired or investigated
into by the Council ; or
(c) refuses or fails without cause, which in the opinion
of the Council is reasonable, to produce to the
Council any document or other thing which is in his
possession or power and which is in the opinion of
the Council necessary for arriving at the truth of the
matters to be inquired or investigated into,
such person shall be guilty of the offence of contempt against
or in disrespect of, the Council.
26 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
Punishment for 46. (1) Any act or omission in contravention of the
offence of provisions of section 45 shall constitute an offence of contempt
contempt.
against, or in disrespect of the Council, if such act or omission
would if done or omitted to be done in relation to the Court
of Appeal, have constituted an offence of contempt against,
or in disrespect of the authority of such Court.
(2) Where the Council determines that a person has
committed an offence of contempt against or in disrespect of
its authority, the Council may cause its Chairman to transmit
to the Court of Appeal a certificate setting out such
determination. Every such certificate shall be signed by the
Chairman of the Council.
(3) In any proceedings for the punishment of an offence
of contempt which the Court of Appeal may think fit to take
cognisance of as provided for in this section, any document
purporting to be a certificate signed and transmitted to such
Court under subsection (2), shall—
(a) be received in evidence, and be deemed to be such a
certificate without further proof unless, the contrary
is proved; and
(b) be evidence that the determination set out in the
certificate was made by the Council on the facts
stated in the determination.
(4) In any proceeding taken as provided for in this section
for the punishment of any alleged offence of contempt against
or in disrespect of the Council, any member of the Council
may be summoned or examined as a witness and any such
proceeding shall be heard and disposed of within three months
of the receipt of the certificate referred to in subsection (2).
Privileges of 47. Every person who gives evidence before the Council
witnesses.
shall in respect of such evidence, be entitled to all the privileges
to which a witness giving evidence before a court of law is
entitled to in respect of evidence given by him before such
court.
Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 27
48. The Council may determine the procedure to be Procedure to be
laid down by the
followed in the conduct of any inquiry or investigation before
Council.
such Council.
PART V
FUND OF THE AUTHORITY
49. (1) The Authority shall have its own Fund. Fund of the
Authority.
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the Authority —
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from
time to time by Parliament for the use of the
Authority ;
(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Authority by way of fees or otherwise in the
discharge of its functions ;
(c) the proceeds from the sale of any goods forfeited
under this Act ;
(d) one-third of every fine imposed for the commission
of any offence under this Act ;
(e) all such sums of money as may be made available to
it by way of grant or donations ; and
(f) all such sums of money as are credited or
transferred to the Fund under section 59 or
section 73.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund —
(a) remuneration payable to the members of the
Authority and of the Council ;
