28 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
(b) such sums as the Authority may consider necessary
for the promotion, assistance and encouragement of
consumer organizations and the administration and
development of such organizations ;
(c) such sums as the Authority may consider necessary
for consumer education and the dissemination of
information relating thereto, and for any purpose
connected with or incidental to the furtherance of
such education ; and
(d) such sums of money as may be required to defray
the expenses incurred by the Authority and the
Council in the exercise, discharge and
performance of its powers, functions and duties
under this Act.
Financial year 50. (1) The Financial year of the Authority shall be the
and the audit of calendar year.
accounts.
(2) The Authority shall cause proper books of accounts to
be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Authority.
(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to and in respect of the audit of the accounts of
the Authority.
Application of 51. The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of
Part II of the 1971, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the financial control
Finance Act, No. and accounts of the Authority.
38 of 1971.
PART VI
STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY
Director-General 52. (1) The Authority may with the approval in
of the Authority. writing of the Minister, appoint a Director-General to the
Authority (in this Act referred to as the “Director-General”).
(2) The Director-General appointed under subsection (1)
shall be the chief executive officer of the Authority, and shall
at all times act under the directions of the Authority.
Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 29
(3) Director-General shall be paid such remuneration as
may be determined by the Authority in consultation with the
Minister.
(4) Whenever the Director-General is by reason of illness
or absence from Sri Lanka or for any other cause, unable to
perform the duties of his office, the Authority may, with the
approval in writing to the Minister, appoint some other person
to act in his place, during such absence.
53. The Authority may appoint such number of Directors, Appointment of
Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors and other officers, officers, servants
servants and advisers as are necessary for the performance of and advisers to the
the work of the Authority and of the Council, who shall be Authority.
remunerated at such rates as may be determined by the
Authority in consultation with the Minister.
54. (1) At the request of the Authority, any officer in Appointment of
the public service may, with the consent of that officer and public officers to
the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the the staff of the
Authority.
subject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointed
to the staff of the Authority for such period as may be
determined by the Authority, with like consent, or with like
consent be permanently appointed to such staff.
(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Authority the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply and in relation to him.
(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to, and in relation to him.
(4) Where the Authority employs any person who has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, service
to the Authority by that person shall be regarded as service to
the Government for the purpose of discharging the obligations
under such agreement.
