Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 27
48. The Council may determine the procedure to be Procedure to be
laid down by the
followed in the conduct of any inquiry or investigation before
Council.
such Council.
PART V
FUND OF THE AUTHORITY
49. (1) The Authority shall have its own Fund. Fund of the
Authority.
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the Authority —
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from
time to time by Parliament for the use of the
Authority ;
(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Authority by way of fees or otherwise in the
discharge of its functions ;
(c) the proceeds from the sale of any goods forfeited
under this Act ;
(d) one-third of every fine imposed for the commission
of any offence under this Act ;
(e) all such sums of money as may be made available to
it by way of grant or donations ; and
(f) all such sums of money as are credited or
transferred to the Fund under section 59 or
section 73.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund —
(a) remuneration payable to the members of the
Authority and of the Council ;
28 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
(b) such sums as the Authority may consider necessary
for the promotion, assistance and encouragement of
consumer organizations and the administration and
development of such organizations ;
(c) such sums as the Authority may consider necessary
for consumer education and the dissemination of
information relating thereto, and for any purpose
connected with or incidental to the furtherance of
such education ; and
(d) such sums of money as may be required to defray
the expenses incurred by the Authority and the
Council in the exercise, discharge and
performance of its powers, functions and duties
under this Act.
Financial year 50. (1) The Financial year of the Authority shall be the
and the audit of calendar year.
accounts.
(2) The Authority shall cause proper books of accounts to
be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Authority.
(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to and in respect of the audit of the accounts of
the Authority.
Application of 51. The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of
Part II of the 1971, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the financial control
Finance Act, No. and accounts of the Authority.
38 of 1971.
PART VI
STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY
Director-General 52. (1) The Authority may with the approval in
of the Authority. writing of the Minister, appoint a Director-General to the
Authority (in this Act referred to as the “Director-General”).
(2) The Director-General appointed under subsection (1)
shall be the chief executive officer of the Authority, and shall
at all times act under the directions of the Authority.
