30 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
PART VII
GENERAL
Power of 55. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
Authority to send provisions of this Act, the Authority may, if it is satisfied after
warning.
such inquiry as it may deem necessary that any person has
contravened any of the provisions of this Act or any direction
given thereunder, in the case of the first contravention, send
to such person a warning in writing.
(2) A warning under subsection (1) shall be sent by the
Authority by registered post.
Power to require 56. (1) The Authority may, for the proper discharge of
maintenance of its functions under this Act, require the manufacturers,
records and the
importers, distributors and exporters of any goods or
furnishing of
returns. services—
(a) to maintain records in respect of such
matters as the Authority may consider
necessary for the proper discharge of its functions
under this Act and in such form as may be determined
by the Authority; and
(b) to furnish to the authority returns in respect of
such matters as the Authority may consider
necessary for the proper discharge of its functions
under this Act, at such intervals and in such form as
may be determined by the Authority.
(2) It shall be the duty of all manufacturers, importers,
distributors and exporters who are required under paragraph
(a) of subsection (1) to maintain records, to preserve the
records being so maintained, for a period not exceeding six
years.
Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 31
57. (1) The Authority or any person authorised in that behalf Power of
by the Authority may, by notice in writing require any person Authority to call
for information.
within such period as shall be specified in the notice, to furnish
any information or to produce any document as shall be specified
in such notice, which the Authority may consider necessary for
the proper discharge of its functions under this Act, and it shall
be the duty of any person who receives such notice to comply
with such requirement within the time specified in such notice,
notwithstanding the provisions of any written law which may
prohibit such person from disclosing such information or from
producing such document :
Provided however, that nothing in this subsection shall be
read and construed as enabling the Authority or any person
authorised in that behalf by the Authority, by notice to require
any person to furnish any information or to produce any
document, if the disclosure of such information or the production
of such document is prohibited by any provision of any law
providing for the imposition and recovery of any tax.
(2) No information contained in a return furnished under
section 56 and no information furnished or the contents of a
document produced in compliance with the terms of a notice
issued under this section, shall be published or communicated
by the Authority to any other person except with the consent
of the person furnishing such return or information, or
producing such document, as the case may be, or in the course
of the discharge of its functions by the Authority.
58. (1) The Authority or any other officer authorised in Power of entry,
writing in that behalf by the Authority may, for the purpose of inspection and
search.
ascertaining whether the provisions of this Act or any regulation
made thereunder are being complied with, have the power on
reasonable grounds and on production, if so required, his
credentials —
(a) to enter, inspect and search at all reasonable hours of
the day the premises in which any manufacturer or
trader is carrying on his business or any other premises
where any goods are being stored or exposed for sale;
32 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
(b) to seize and detain any goods found in such premises in
contravention of the provisions of section 16 or 17; and
(c) to inspect, take copies of or seize and detain any
records or documents required to be kept by or under
this Act or any other law in respect of such business.
(2) Any goods seized and detained under paragraph (b)
of subsection (1), shall be produced in court, and on conviction
of such manufacturer or trader, be forfeited and disposed of
in such manner as may be determined by court, and any money
realised shall be credited to the Fund of the Authority.
Sale of perishable 59. (1) Where any goods seized and detained under
goods. paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 58, is of such
perishable nature, as in the opinion of the Authority render their
immediate sale necessary or advisable, the Authority shall give
not less than three days notice of the sale of such goods by an
advertisement published in one Sinhala, Tamil and English
newspaper each circulating in Sri Lanka and thereafter cause
such goods to be sold.
(2) The proceeds of a sale under subsection (1) of any
goods, shall be credited to a special account to be maintained
for that purpose by the Authority, and where the person from
whom the goods were seized is acquitted or discharged
subsequently by the court, the amount realised from the sale
of such goods shall be given to such person.
(3) Where the court convicts the person from whom the
goods were seized, the money realised from the sale of such
goods and lying to the credit of the special account referred
to in subsection (2), shall be credited to the Fund of the
Authority.
offences and 60. (1) Any person who. —
Penalties.
(a) fails or refuses to furnish .—
(i) a return when required by the Authority to do so
under section 56 ; or
Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 33
(ii) any information or to produce any document
when required to do so by a notice sent under
section 57;
(b) knowingly makes any false statement in any return
furnished by him under this Act, or knowingly
furnishes any false information when required by the
Authority to furnish any information ; or
(c) obstructs any officer acting in the exercise of his
powers under section 58,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall on
conviction after trial before a Magistrate, be liable —
(i) where such person is not a body corporate, to a fine
not less than rupees one thousand and not exceeding
rupees five thousand or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding three months or
to both such fine and imprisonment in the case of a
first offence, and to a fine not less than rupees two
thousand and not exceeding rupees ten thousand or to
an imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment in the case of a subsequent offence ; or
(ii) where such person is a body corporate, to a fine not
less than rupees five thousand and not exceeding
rupees ten thousand in the case of a first offence, and
to a fine not less than rupees ten thousand and not
exceeding rupees twenty thousand in the case of a
subsequent offence.
(2) (a) Any person who fails or refuses to comply with
an order made under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section
41 or acts in contravention of such order, shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act, and shall on conviction after trial before
a Magistrate be liable —
