2 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
(2) The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.
Constitution of the 3. (1) The Authority shall consist of a Chairman and
Authority. not less than ten other members who shall be appointed by
the Minister from among persons who possess recognized
qualifications, have had wide experience and have
distinguished themselves in the field of industry, law,
economics, commerce, administration, accountancy, science
or health.
(2) The Chairman and three of the members, selected by
the Minister from among the members appointed under
subsection (1), shall be full time members (hereinafter referred
to as “full-time members of the Authority”).
(3) The members of the Authority other than the
Chairman and the three full time members of the Authority
shall be paid such remuneration as may be determined by the
Minister in consultation with the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance.
(4) The provisions of the Schedule to this Act, shall have
effect in relation to the term of office of the members of the
Authority, the meetings and seal of the Authority.
Chairman and full 4. The Chairman and the full time members of the
time members. Authority shall each hold office for a period of three years
from the date of their respective appointments, and shall be
paid for their services such remuneration as may be
determined by the Minister in consultation with the Minister
in charge of the subject of Finance.
Director-General 5. The Director-General of the Authority appointed under
to act as the section 52, shall act as the Secretary to the Authority.
Secretary to the
Authority.
Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 3
6. The Authority may for the purpose of discharging its Delegation of
functions under this Act, delegate to any public officer by powers to public
officers.
name or office such functions vested in, or imposed upon, or
assigned to the Authority by or under this Act, on such terms
and conditions as may be agreed upon between such officer
and the Authority.
7. The objects of the Authority shall be— Objects of the
Authority.
(a) to protect consumers against the marketing of goods
or the provision of services which are hazardous to
life and property of consumers ;
(b) to protect consumers against unfair trade practices
and guarantee that consumers interest shall be given
due consideration ;
(c) to ensure that wherever possible consumers have
adequate access to goods and services at competitive
prices ; and
(d) to seek redress against unfair trade practices,
restrictive trade practices or any other forms of
exploitation of consumers by traders.
8. The functions of the Authority shall be to— Functions of the
Authority.
(a) control or eliminate—
(i) restrictive trade agreements among
enterprises;
(ii) arrangements amongst enterprises with regard
to prices ;
(iii) abuse of a dominant position with regard to
domestic trade or economic development
within the market or in a substantial part of
the market ; or
(iv) any restraint of competition adversely affecting
domestic or international trade or economic
development ;
4 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
(b) investigate or inquire into anti-competitive practices
and abuse of a dominant position ;
(c) maintain and promote effective competition between
persons supplying goods and services ;
(d) promote and protect the rights and interests of
consumers, purchasers and other users of goods and
services in respect of the price, availability and
quality of such goods and services and the variety
supplied ;
(e) to keep consumers informed about the quality,
quantity, potency, purity, standards and price of
goods and services made available for purchase ;
(f) carry out investigations and inquiries in relation to
any matter specified in this Act ;
(g) promote competitive prices in markets where
competition is less than effective ;
(h) undertake studies, publish reports and provide
information to the public relating to market
conditions and consumer affairs ;
(i) undertake public sector and private sector efficiency
studies ;
(j) promote consumer education with regard to good
health, safety and security of consumers ;
(k) promote the exchange of information relating to
market conditions and consumer affairs with other
institutions ;
(l) promote, assist and encourage the establishment of
consumer organizations ;
(m) charge such fees in respect of any services rendered
by the Authority ;
Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 5
(n) appoint any such committee or committees as may
be necessary to facilitate the discharge of the
functions of the Authority ; and
(o) do all such other acts as may be necessary for
attainment of the objects of the Authority and for
the effective discharge of the functions of such
Authority.
PART II
REGULATION OF TRADE
9. The Authority may— Authority may
undertake studies
(a) undertake such studies in respect of the sale or supply on the distribution
of any class of goods and services as would ensure of goods and
services.
the availability to the consumer of such goods and
services of satisfactory quality at reasonable prices
and in adequate quantities ;
(b) promote, assist and encourage the State or other
organisations including organisations of consumers,
for the purposes described in paragraph (a) ; and
(c) assist and encourage associations of traders to enter
into agreements with the Authority for the purposes
described in section 14.
10. (1) The Authority may, for the protection of the Authority to issue
consumer— directions to
manufacturers or
traders in respect
(a) issue general directions to manufacturers or traders
of price marking,
in respect of labelling, price marking, packeting, sale labelling and
or manufacture of any goods ; and packeting of
goods.
(b) issue special directions to any class of manufacturers
or traders, specifying—
(i) the times during which and the places at which,
such goods may be sold ; and
