Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 33
(ii) any information or to produce any document
when required to do so by a notice sent under
section 57;
(b) knowingly makes any false statement in any return
furnished by him under this Act, or knowingly
furnishes any false information when required by the
Authority to furnish any information ; or
(c) obstructs any officer acting in the exercise of his
powers under section 58,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall on
conviction after trial before a Magistrate, be liable —
(i) where such person is not a body corporate, to a fine
not less than rupees one thousand and not exceeding
rupees five thousand or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding three months or
to both such fine and imprisonment in the case of a
first offence, and to a fine not less than rupees two
thousand and not exceeding rupees ten thousand or to
an imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment in the case of a subsequent offence ; or
(ii) where such person is a body corporate, to a fine not
less than rupees five thousand and not exceeding
rupees ten thousand in the case of a first offence, and
to a fine not less than rupees ten thousand and not
exceeding rupees twenty thousand in the case of a
subsequent offence.
(2) (a) Any person who fails or refuses to comply with
an order made under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section
41 or acts in contravention of such order, shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act, and shall on conviction after trial before
a Magistrate be liable —
34 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
(i) where such person is not a body corporate, to a fine
not less than rupees five thousand and not exceeding
rupees fifty thousand or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding one year or to
both such fine and imprisonment in the case of a
first offence, and to a fine not less than rupees ten
thousand and not exceeding rupees one hundred
thousand or to an imprisonment of either description
for a term not exceeding two years or to both such
fine and imprisonment in the case of a subsequent
offence ; or
(ii) where such person is a body corporate, to a fine not
less than rupees fifty thousand and not exceeding
rupees one million in the case of a first offence, and
to a fine not less than rupees one hundred thousand
and not exceeding rupees two million in the case of
subsequent offence.
(b) The court may in addition, order such persons to refrain
from carrying on the activities in respect of which an order
has been made under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section
41 for such period as may be determined by such court or
until such person complies with the order made under that
paragraph.
(3) Any person guilty of an offence under this Act by
reason of a contravention of the provisions of section 15 or
section 16 or section 17 shall, on conviction after trial before
a Magistrate, be liable —
(a) where such person is not a body corporate, to a fine
not less than rupees one thousand and not exceeding
rupees ten thousand or to an imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding six months or to
both such fine and imprisonment in the case of a first
offence, and to a fine not less than rupees two thousand
and not exceeding rupees twenty thousand or to an
Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 35
imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding one year or to both such fine and
imprisonment in the case of a subsequent offence; or
(b) where such person is a body corporate, to a fine not
less than rupees ten thousand and not exceeding rupees
fifty thousand in the case of a first offence, and to a
fine not less than rupees one hundred thousand and
not exceeding rupees two hundred thousand in the case
of a subsequent offence.
(4) Any person guilty of an offence under this Act by
reason of a contravention of the provisions of section 18 shall,
on conviction after trial before a Magistrate, be liable —
(a) where such person is not a body corporate, to a fine
not less than rupees five thousand and not exceeding
rupees fifty thousand or to an imprisonment of either
discrpition for a term not exceeding one year or to
both such fine and imprisonment in the case of a first
offence, and to a fine not less than rupees ten thousand
and not exceeding rupees one hundred thousand or to
an imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding two years or to both such fine and
imprisonment in the case of a subsequent offence ; or
(b) where such person is a body corporate, to a fine not
less than rupees fifty thousand and not exceeding
rupees one million in the case of a first offence, and
to a fine not less than rupees one hundred thousand
and not exceeding rupees two million in the case of a
subsequent offence.
(5) Every person who acts in contravention of any
provision of this Act, (other than the provisions referred to in
subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4) of this section) or any
requirements imposed under any such provision, or any
regulations made under section 72, shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act and shall, on conviction after trial before a
Magistrate, be liable —
36 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
(a) where such person is not a body corporate, to a fine
not less than rupees one thousand and not exceeding
rupees ten thousand or to an imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding six months or to
both such fine and imprisonment in the case of a first
offence, and to a fine not less than rupees two thousand
and not exceeding rupees twenty thousand or to an
imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding one year or to both such fine and
imprisonment in the case of a subsequent offence; or
(b) where such person is a body corporate to a fine not
less than rupees ten thousand and not exceeding rupees
one hundred thousand in the case of a first offence,
and to a fine not less than rupees twenty thousand and
not exceeding rupees two hundred thousand in the case
of a subsequent offence.
(6) The Authority may publish or cause to be published
in such manner as it shall deem fit, the names and addresses
of all persons convicted under this Act.
(7) Where any offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons, then —
(a) if the body of persons is a body corporate,
every director and officer of such body corporate ;
and
(b) if the body of persons is a firm, every partner of that
firm,
shall be deemed guilty of that offence :
Provided that no such director, officer or partner shall be
deemed guilty of that offence if he proves that such
offence was committed without his knowledge or that he
exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.
Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 37
61. (1) The Authority may where it has reason to believe Obtaining samples
that any goods that are being sold do not conform to the for purpose of
ensuring
standards and specifications laid down under section 12 of
compliance with
this Act— standards and
specifications.
(a) authorize an officer in writing to obtain a sample of
such goods —
(i) from any premises in which a manufacturer or
trader of such goods are carrying on his business;
(ii) from any premises where any such goods are
being stored or exposed for sale ; or
(iii) from any vehicle in which such goods are being
transported ; and
(b) issue a directive to the manufacturer or trader from
whose possession such sample was obtained, to refrain
from selling or exposing for sale the goods concerned
for a period to be specified in the directive, so however
such period shall not exceed a period of six weeks
from the date of the issue of such directive.
(2) It shall be the duty of the officer who obtained the
sample to forthwith submit it to an approved analyst for
purpose of determining whether such goods conforms to the
standards and specifications laid down under section 12, and
the said approved analyst may, except in exceptional
circumstances, submit his report to the Authority within a
period not exceeding one month of the receipt of the sample.
(3) On receipt of the report of an approved analyst, the
Authority shall —
(a) where it discloses that the goods concerned conforms
to the standards and specifications laid down under
section 12, forthwith remove the restriction imposed
by the directive issued under subsection (1) ; or
38 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
(b) where it discloses that the goods do not conform to
the standards and specifications laid down under
section 12 of this Act and that such non conformity
has resulted in the goods concerned being rendered
unfit for any use or consumption, seize and detain such
goods or consignment of goods as the case may be.
(4) Where any goods or consignment of goods are seized
and detained under paragraph (b) of subsection (3) from any
manufacturer or trader as the case may be, such manufacturer
or trader shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
(5) In a prosecution for an offence under this section, a
certificate issued under the hand of an officer authorised by
the Director-General in writing to analyse any goods for the
purpose of this section, stating the ingredients or the
composition of the goods in relation to which the offence is
alleged to have been committed, shall be admissible in
evidence and shall be prima facie proof of the statements made
therein.
(6) A prosecution for an offence under this section shall
not be instituted except by or with the written sanction of the
Director-General.
(7) For the purpose of this section, an “approved analyst”
means a person who is qualified to perform such function
and approved by the Director-General.
General forfeiture. 62. (1) Where in a conviction for an offence under
subsection (4) of section 61 it is proved that the non-
conformity with the standards and specifications has rendered
the goods or consignment of goods unfit for any use or for
consumption, then —
(a) if no appeal has been preferred to the High Court of
the relevant Province established by Article 154P of
the Constitution, against the relevant conviction within
the time allowed therefor ; or
Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 39
(b) if an appeal has been preferred to the High Court of
the relevant Province established by Article 154P of
the Constitution, against the relevant conviction, and
the conviction is affirmed,
the court shall order that such goods or consignment of goods
be forfeited to the State to be destroyed in such manner as the
court may direct.
(2) Where in an action for an offence referred to in
subsection (1), the accused is acquitted for the reason that it
was not proved to the satisfaction of the court that the non-
conformity with the standards and specifications has rendered
the goods or consignment of goods unfit for any use or
consumption, then —
(a) if no appeal has been preferred to the High Court of
the relevant Province established by Article 154P of
the Constitution, against the relevant acquittal within
the time allowed therefor ; or
(b) if an appeal has been preferred to the High Court
of the relevant Province established by Article
154P of the Constitution, against the relevant
acquittal and the acquittal is affirmed by the Court of
Appeal,
the court shall order the release of goods or consignment of
goods seized.
63. Every court shall give priority to the disposal of any Priority to be
case filed under section 61 before such court, and to the given for cases
hearing of any appeal from any conviction against any order under section 61.
imposed on such conviction.
64. No civil or criminal proceedings shall be instituted— Protection for
action taken under
this Act.
(a) against the Authority for any act which in good faith
is done or purported to be done by the Authority
under this Act ; or
40 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
(b) against any member, Director-General, Director,
Deputy Director, Assistant Director, officer, servant
or adviser of the Authority or any member of the
Council, for any act which in good faith is done or
purported to be done by him under this Act or on the
directions of the Authority or the Council as the case
may be.
Expenses to be 65. (1) Any expense incurred by the Authority in any
paid out of the
suit or prosecution brought by or against the Authority before
Fund.
any court, shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority, and
any costs paid to or recovered by the Authority in any such
suit or prosecution, shall be credited to the Fund of the
Authority.
(2) Any expenses incurred by any member,
Director-General, Director, Deputy Director, Assistant
Director, officer, servant or adviser of the Authority or any
member of the Council in any suit or prosecution brought by
or against such person before any court, in respect of any act
which is done or purported to be done by such person under
this Act or on the directions of the Authority or Council shall,
if the court holds that such act was done in good faith, be paid
out of the Fund of the Authority, unless such expenses are
recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.
Members of the 66. All members of the Authority and the Council,
Authority and the Director-General, Directors, Deputy Directors, Assistant
Council and
Directors, officers, servants and advisers of the Authority shall
officers and
servants of the be deemed to be —
Authority deemed
to be public (a) public servants within the meaning of, and for the
servants.
purposes of the Penal Code ; and
(b) public servant within the meaning of section 136 of
the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979
for the purpose of instituting proceedings in respect
of offences under this Act.
Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 41
67. The Authority and the Council shall be deemed to The Authority and
the council deemed
be Scheduled Institutions within the meaning of the Bribery to be Scheduled
Institutions within
Act and the provisions of that Act shall be construed the meaning of the
accordingly. Bribery Act.
68. Where any offence under this Act is committed by Principal liable for
an agent or servant of any manufacturer or trader, such offence offences of agents
and servants.
shall be deemed to have been committed by such manufacturer
or trader, unless he proves that such offence was committed
without his knowledge.
69. Where any person is convicted of any offence under Rewards to certain
this Act or where any goods are seized and ordered to be persons.
forfeited under this Act, the Authority may pay —
(a) to the person who provided the information leading
to such conviction or the seizure and forfeiture of such
goods ; and
(b) to any person who was concerned in the detection of
such offence or effecting the seizure and forfeiture of
such goods,
such amount as it may deem reasonable, as a reward.
70. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Code Offences to be
of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, every offence cognizable
offences.
under this Act, shall be deemed to be a cognizable offence
within the meaning and for the purposes of that Code.
71. The Director-General, Directors, Deputy Directors Certain officers to
and Assistant Directors of the Authority shall be deemed to be peace officers.
be peace officers within the meaning of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 for the purpose of exercising
any of the powers conferred upon peace officers by that Code.
72. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of Regulations.
any matter required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect
of which regulations are authorised by this Act to be made.
42 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may
make regulations in respect of all or any of the following
matters :—
(a) prescribing the manner in which meetings of the
Authority shall be convened ;
(b) prescribing the manner of conduct of meetings of the
Authority ;
(c) prescribing the persons by whom, and the manner in
which, the expenses of witnesses notified to attend
inquiries and investigations held by the Authority and
the Council are to be paid.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in such regulation.
(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is deemed to be rescinded, shall be published
in the Gazette.
Repeal of 73. (1) (a) The Consumer Protection Act, No. 1 of 1979
Consumer is hereby repealed.
Protection Act,
No. 1 of 1979, (b) Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid Act—
Fair Trading
Commission Act, (i) (aa) every scheme of distribution published
No. 1 of 1987, under section 3 of the repealed Act ;
Control of Prices
Act, (Chapter (bb) every general direction issued by the
173) and savings.
Commissioner of Internal Trade under
section 6 of the repealed Act ;
