Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 17
31. Any trader who, in the course of a trade or business, False
in connection with the supply or possible supply of goods or representations.
services or in connection with the promotion by any means
of the supply or use of goods or services—
(a) falsely represents that goods or services are of a
particular standard, quality or grade, or that goods
are of a particular style or model ;
(b) falsely represents that goods are new ;
(c) represents that goods or services have sponsorship,
approval, performance, characteristics accessories,
uses or benefits they do not have ;
(d) represents that such trader has a sponsorship approval
or affiliation he does not have ;
(e) makes false or misleading statements concerning the
existence of, or amounts of price reduction or price
increase ;
(f) makes false or misleading statements concerning the
need for any goods, services, replacements or
repairs; or
(g) makes false or misleading statements concerning the
existence or effect of any warranty or guarantee,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
32. (1) In every contract for the supply of goods or for Warranties in
the provision of services by any person in the course of a relation to the
supply of goods
business of supply of such goods or provisions of such services
or services.
to a consumer, there is an implied warranty that—
(a) the services will be provided with due care and skill;
(b) that any materials supplied in connection with
provision of such services will be reasonably fit for
the purpose for which they are supplied ;
(c) the goods supplied or services provided will be in
conformity with the standards and specifications
determined under section 12 of this Act ; and
18 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
(d) the goods supplied will be reasonably fit for the
purpose for which they are supplied.
(2) Where a trader or any person other than a trader
supplies any goods or provides any service to a consumer in
the course of a business and the consumer, expressly or by
implication, makes known to the trader or other person of
any particular purpose for which the goods or services are
required or the result that he desire the service to achieve,
there is an implied warranty that the services provided under
the contract for the provision of such services and any
materials supplied in connection with those services will be
reasonably fit for that purpose or are of such a nature and
quality that they might reasonably be expected to achieve that
result, except where circumstances show the consumer does
not rely, or that it is unreasonable for him to rely, on the trader’s
or such other person’s skill or judgement.
(3) A consumer aggrieved by the breach of an implied
warranty as provided for in subsection (1) or (2) may make a
complaint to the Authority in writing against such breach
within one month of the supply of such goods or the provision
of such services as the case may be, or the supply of materials
supplied in connection with the provision of those services.
(4) At any inquiry held into a complaint made under
subsection (3), the Authority shall give the trader or other
person against whom the complaint is made, an opportunity
of being heard either in person or by an agent on his behalf.
(5) Where after the inquiry the Authority is of opinion
that a breach of an implied warranty has taken place, it shall
order the trader or other person to pay compensation to the
aggrieved party or refund the amount paid for the supply of
such goods or provision of such services as the case may be,
and for the supply of any materials in connection with the
provision of those services, within such period as shall be
specified in the order.
(6) An order under subsection (5) shall be made in writing
and communicated to such trader or other person by registered
post.
Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 19
(7) Where a trader or any other person against whom an
order is made under subsection (5) fails or refuses to pay such
compensation or to refund the amount required to be paid as
the case may be, within the period specified in the order, such
sum may, on application being made in that behalf by the
Authority to the Magistrate’s Court having jurisdiction over
the place of business or residence of the trader or such other
person against whom the order was made, be recovered in
like manner as a fine imposed by such court, notwithstanding
that such sum may exceed the amount of a fine which that
Court may, in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction impose.
33. At the request of the Minister, the Authority shall Public efficiency
carry out a public sector and private sector efficiency study reports.
and submit a report to the Minister. It shall be the duty of the
Minister to place such report before Parliament.
PART III
PROMOTION OF COMPETITION AND CONSUMER INTEREST
34. (1) The Authority may either of its own motion or Authority to carry
on a complaint or request made to it by any person, any out investigations
into anti-
organization of consumers or an association of traders, carry
competitive
out an investigation with respect to the prevalence of any anti-
practices.
cometitive practice.
(2) It shall be the duty of the Authority to complete an
investigation under subsection (1), within one hundred days
of its initiation.
35. For the purpose of section 34, an anti-competitive Anti-competitive
practice shall be deemed to prevail, where a person in the practice.
course of business, pursues a course of conduct which of itself
or when taken together with a course of condut pursued by
persons associated with him, has or is intended to have or is
likely to have the effect of restricting, distorting or preventing
competition in connection with the production, supply or
acquisition of goods in Sri Lanka or the supply or securing of
services in Sri Lanka.
20 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
Provisions 36. (1) The Authority may give to all persons including
relating to an representatives of associations or organisations of consumers
investigation
interested in a matter which forms the subject of an
under section 34.
investigation under section 34, an opportunity of being heard
and of producing such evidence, oral or documentary, as in
the opinion of the Authority is relevant to such matter.
(2) For the purpose of conducting an investigation under
section 33, the Authority shall have all the powers of a District
Court—
(a) to issue notices and require the attendance of any
witness ;
(b) to require the production of documents or records ;
and
(c) to administer any oath or affirmation to any witness.
(3) Where any person—
(a) without sufficient reason publishes any statement or
does anything during the progress or after the
conclusion of any investigation, which may bring
the Authority or any member thereof into
disrepute ; or
(b) interferes with the lawful process of the Authority ;
or
(c) in the course of an investigation—
(i) fails without cause, to appear before the
Authority at the time and place specified in
any notice issued by the Authority to such
person ; or
(ii) refuses to be sworn or affirmed or having been
duly sworn or affirmed refuses or fails without
cause, to answer any questions put to him
relating to the matter being investigated by the
Authority ; or
Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 21
(iii) refuses or fails without cause, to produce and
show to the Authority any document or record
which is in his possession or control, and which
in the opinion of the Authority is relevant to the
matter being investigated by the Authority,
such person shall be guilty of an offence of contempt
against or in disrespect of the Authority and shall be punishable
for such offence by the Court of Appeal.
(4) Where the Authority determines that a person had
committed any offence of contempt against or in disrespect
of its authority, the Authority may cause the Director-General
to transmit to the Court of Appeal a certificate setting out its
determination and every such certificate shall be signed by
the Chairman of the Authority.
(5) In any proceedings for the punishment of an offence
of contempt which the Court of Appeal may think fit to take
cognisance of as provided in subsection (3), any document
purporting to be a certificate signed and transmitted to the
Court of Appeal under subsection (4), shall be prima facie
evidence of the facts stated in the determination set out therein,
and be conclusive evidence that such determination was made
by the Authority.
37. (1) Upon the conclusion of an investigation under Authority to
section 34, the Authority may make an application to the make an
Council for purpose of determining on such matter. application to the
Council.
(2) The application referred to in subsection (1), shall be
made in writing and shall be in such form as may be prescribed
for that purpose.
38. Where upon conclusion of an investigation by the Council to
Authority under section 34, the Authority decides not to make entertain
an application to the Council under section 37 in respect of applications made
by any person or
such investigation, the person, any orgnisation of consumers or
association of
association of traders, as the case may be, on whose complaint
traders.
or request such investigation was caried out, may by application
in writing addressed to the Council, request the Council to—
22 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
(a) call upon the Authority to submit to the Council its
report on the investigation ; and
(b) hear and determine such application, where the
Council is of opinion that there is sufficient material
in the report to warrant the Council to take up such
application for determination.
PART IV
CONSUMER AFFAIRS COUNCIL
Establishment and 39. (1) There shall be established for the purpose of this
constitution of a Act a Council to be known as the “Consumer Affairs Council”.
Consumer Affairs
Council.
(2) The Council shall consist of the following persons who
shall be appointed by the Minister :—
(a) one person who has had wide experience in the field
of commercial law ;
(b) one person who has had wide experience in the
management of business enterprises ; and
(c) an economist with wide experience in trade practices
and consumer affairs.
(3) The members of the Council shall hold office for a
period of three years and the Minister shall nominate one of
the members to be its Chairman.
(4) The members of the Council shall be paid such
remuneration as may be determined by the Minister, in
consultation with the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance.
(5) There shall be appointed a Secretary to the Council
who shall be responsible for maintaining records of all
proceedings of the Council, and for sending out any notices
required to be sent by the Council under this Act.
