Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 5
(n) appoint any such committee or committees as may
be necessary to facilitate the discharge of the
functions of the Authority ; and
(o) do all such other acts as may be necessary for
attainment of the objects of the Authority and for
the effective discharge of the functions of such
Authority.
PART II
REGULATION OF TRADE
9. The Authority may— Authority may
undertake studies
(a) undertake such studies in respect of the sale or supply on the distribution
of any class of goods and services as would ensure of goods and
services.
the availability to the consumer of such goods and
services of satisfactory quality at reasonable prices
and in adequate quantities ;
(b) promote, assist and encourage the State or other
organisations including organisations of consumers,
for the purposes described in paragraph (a) ; and
(c) assist and encourage associations of traders to enter
into agreements with the Authority for the purposes
described in section 14.
10. (1) The Authority may, for the protection of the Authority to issue
consumer— directions to
manufacturers or
traders in respect
(a) issue general directions to manufacturers or traders
of price marking,
in respect of labelling, price marking, packeting, sale labelling and
or manufacture of any goods ; and packeting of
goods.
(b) issue special directions to any class of manufacturers
or traders, specifying—
(i) the times during which and the places at which,
such goods may be sold ; and
6 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
(ii) any other conditions as to the manufacturing,
importing, marketing, storing, selling and
stocking, of any goods.
(2) Every direction issued by the Authority under
subsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and in at least
one Sinhala, one Tamil and one English newspaper.
(3) Any manufacturer or trader who fails to comply with
any direction issued under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act.
(4) Any person who removes, alters, obliterates, erases or
defaces any label, description or price mark on any goods in
respect of which a direction under subsection (1) has been
issued, or sells or offers for sale any such goods from or on
which the label, description or price mark has been removed,
altered, obliterated, erased or defaced, shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act.
Selling or offering 11. Any person who sells or offers to sell any goods above
to sell above the the price marked on the goods in accordance with a direction
marked price.
issued under section 10, shall be guilty of an offence under
this Act.
Determining 12. (1) The Authority may for the purpose of protecting
standards and the consumer and ensuring the quality of goods sold or services
specifications provided, by Notification published in the Gazette, from time
relating to goods
to time, determine such standards and specifications relating to
and supply of
services. the production, manufacture, supply, storage, transportation and
sale of any goods, and to the supply of any services.
(2) The Authority may by Notification published in the
Gazette adopt such standards and specifications prescribed
by the Sri Lanka Standards Institution established by the
Sri Lanka Standards Institution Act, No. 6 of 1984, relating
to the production, manufacture, supply, storage, transportation
and sale of any goods, and to the supply of any services, as
standards and specifications, to be determined under
subsection (1).
Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 7
13. (1) The Authority may inquire into complaints Authority to
regarding— inquire into
complaints.
(a) the production, manufacture, supply, storage,
transportation or sale of any goods and to the supply
of any services which does not conform to the
standards and specifications determined under
section 12 ; and
(b) the manufacture or sale of any goods which does
not conform to the warranty or guarantee given by
implication or otherwise, by the manufacturer or
trader.
(2) A complaint under subsection (1) which relates to the
sale of any goods or to the provision of any service shall be
made to the Authority in writing within three months of the
sale of such goods or the provisions of such service, as the
case may be.
(3) At any inquiry held into a complaint under subsection
(1), the Authority shall give the manufacturer or trader against
whom such complaint is made an opportunity of being heard
either in person or by an agent nominated in that behalf.
(4) Where after an inquiry into a complaint, the Authority
is of opinion that a manufacture or sale of any goods or the
provision of any services has been made which does not conform
to the standards or specifications determined or deemed to be
determined by the Authority, or that a manufacture or sale has
been made of any goods not conforming to any warranty or
guarantee given by implication or otherwise by the
manufacturer or trader, it shall order the manufacturer or trader
to pay compensation to the aggrieved party or to replace such
goods or to refund the amount paid for such goods or the
provision of such service, as the case may be.
(5) An order under subsection (4) shall be made in writing
and be communicated to such manufacturer or trader by
registered post.
