consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 5 (n) appoint any such committee or committees as may be necessary to facilitate the discharge of the functions of the authority ; and (o) do all such other acts as may be necessary for attainment of the objects of the authority and for the effective discharge of the functions of such authority. part ii regulation of trade 9. the authority may— authority may undertake studies (a) undertake such studies in respect of the sale or supply on the distribution of any class of goods and services as would ensure of goods and services. the availability to the consumer of such goods and services of satisfactory quality at reasonable prices and in adequate quantities ; (b) promote, assist and encourage the state or other organisations including organisations of consumers, for the purposes described in paragraph (a) ; and (c) assist and encourage associations of traders to enter into agreements with the authority for the purposes described in section 14. 10. (1) the authority may, for the protection of the authority to issue consumer— directions to manufacturers or traders in respect (a) issue general directions to manufacturers or traders of price marking, in respect of labelling, price marking, packeting, sale labelling and or manufacture of any goods ; and packeting of goods. (b) issue special directions to any class of manufacturers or traders, specifying— (i) the times during which and the places at which, such goods may be sold ; and 6 consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 (ii) any other conditions as to the manufacturing, importing, marketing, storing, selling and stocking, of any goods. (2) every direction issued by the authority under subsection (1) shall be published in the gazette and in at least one sinhala, one tamil and one english newspaper. (3) any manufacturer or trader who fails to comply with any direction issued under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence under this act. (4) any person who removes, alters, obliterates, erases or defaces any label, description or price mark on any goods in respect of which a direction under subsection (1) has been issued, or sells or offers for sale any such goods from or on which the label, description or price mark has been removed, altered, obliterated, erased or defaced, shall be guilty of an offence under this act. selling or offering 11. any person who sells or offers to sell any goods above to sell above the the price marked on the goods in accordance with a direction marked price. issued under section 10, shall be guilty of an offence under this act. determining 12. (1) the authority may for the purpose of protecting standards and the consumer and ensuring the quality of goods sold or services specifications provided, by notification published in the gazette, from time relating to goods to time, determine such standards and specifications relating to and supply of services. the production, manufacture, supply, storage, transportation and sale of any goods, and to the supply of any services. (2) the authority may by notification published in the gazette adopt such standards and specifications prescribed by the sri lanka standards institution established by the sri lanka standards institution act, no. 6 of 1984, relating to the production, manufacture, supply, storage, transportation and sale of any goods, and to the supply of any services, as standards and specifications, to be determined under subsection (1). consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 7 13. (1) the authority may inquire into complaints authority to regarding— inquire into complaints. (a) the production, manufacture, supply, storage, transportation or sale of any goods and to the supply of any services which does not conform to the standards and specifications determined under section 12 ; and (b) the manufacture or sale of any goods which does not conform to the warranty or guarantee given by implication or otherwise, by the manufacturer or trader. (2) a complaint under subsection (1) which relates to the sale of any goods or to the provision of any service shall be made to the authority in writing within three months of the sale of such goods or the provisions of such service, as the case may be. (3) at any inquiry held into a complaint under subsection (1), the authority shall give the manufacturer or trader against whom such complaint is made an opportunity of being heard either in person or by an agent nominated in that behalf. (4) where after an inquiry into a complaint, the authority is of opinion that a manufacture or sale of any goods or the provision of any services has been made which does not conform to the standards or specifications determined or deemed to be determined by the authority, or that a manufacture or sale has been made of any goods not conforming to any warranty or guarantee given by implication or otherwise by the manufacturer or trader, it shall order the manufacturer or trader to pay compensation to the aggrieved party or to replace such goods or to refund the amount paid for such goods or the provision of such service, as the case may be. (5) an order under subsection (4) shall be made in writing and be communicated to such manufacturer or trader by registered post.