Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003 29
(3) Director-General shall be paid such remuneration as
may be determined by the Authority in consultation with the
Minister.
(4) Whenever the Director-General is by reason of illness
or absence from Sri Lanka or for any other cause, unable to
perform the duties of his office, the Authority may, with the
approval in writing to the Minister, appoint some other person
to act in his place, during such absence.
53. The Authority may appoint such number of Directors, Appointment of
Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors and other officers, officers, servants
servants and advisers as are necessary for the performance of and advisers to the
the work of the Authority and of the Council, who shall be Authority.
remunerated at such rates as may be determined by the
Authority in consultation with the Minister.
54. (1) At the request of the Authority, any officer in Appointment of
the public service may, with the consent of that officer and public officers to
the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the the staff of the
Authority.
subject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointed
to the staff of the Authority for such period as may be
determined by the Authority, with like consent, or with like
consent be permanently appointed to such staff.
(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Authority the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply and in relation to him.
(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to, and in relation to him.
(4) Where the Authority employs any person who has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, service
to the Authority by that person shall be regarded as service to
the Government for the purpose of discharging the obligations
under such agreement.
30 Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003
PART VII
GENERAL
Power of 55. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
Authority to send provisions of this Act, the Authority may, if it is satisfied after
warning.
such inquiry as it may deem necessary that any person has
contravened any of the provisions of this Act or any direction
given thereunder, in the case of the first contravention, send
to such person a warning in writing.
(2) A warning under subsection (1) shall be sent by the
Authority by registered post.
Power to require 56. (1) The Authority may, for the proper discharge of
maintenance of its functions under this Act, require the manufacturers,
records and the
importers, distributors and exporters of any goods or
furnishing of
returns. services—
(a) to maintain records in respect of such
matters as the Authority may consider
necessary for the proper discharge of its functions
under this Act and in such form as may be determined
by the Authority; and
(b) to furnish to the authority returns in respect of
such matters as the Authority may consider
necessary for the proper discharge of its functions
under this Act, at such intervals and in such form as
may be determined by the Authority.
(2) It shall be the duty of all manufacturers, importers,
distributors and exporters who are required under paragraph
(a) of subsection (1) to maintain records, to preserve the
records being so maintained, for a period not exceeding six
years.
