12 foreign exchange act, no. 12 of 2017 (8) (a) court may, after considering an application made under subsections (6) and (7) make an order prayed for under paragraph (d) of subsection (7) and such dealer or person shall comply with the order forthwith.
(b) any dealer or person who fails to comply with an order of the court under paragraph (a) commits an offence and shall, on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand.
(c) where the offence under paragraph (b) is a continuing offence, such dealer or person shall be liable to an additional fine of rupees hundred thousand for each day during which such offence continued.
failure to 11.
(1) where the central bank is satisfied that an comply with a authorized dealer or restricted dealer– provision of the act or any (a) deals in foreign exchange in any current transaction regulation, order, or capital transaction contrary to the provisions of direction, this act; guideline & etc. made or issued (b) deals in foreign exchange in relation to foreign thereunder.
assets contrary to the provisions of this act; (c) fails to comply with any guideline or direction issued under subsections (1), (2) and (3) of section 9 or any requirement under subsection (4) of section9; or (d) violates any provision of this act or any regulation or order made thereunder, the central bank may, upon the minister being informed, issue a notice directing any such authorized dealer or restricted dealer to comply with the provisions of this act or any regulation, order, guideline or direction issued or made thereunder, within the period specified therein.
(2) where any authorized dealer or restricted dealer fails to act in accordance with the notice issued under subsection foreign exchange act, no. 12 of 2017 13 (1), the central bank may, temporarily suspend the authorization granted under subsection (1) of section 4 or paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 4 or the permit granted under paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 4 to deal in foreign exchange.
(3) the central bank may, where there is a temporary suspension under subsection (2), after an inquiry, giving the authorized dealer or restricted dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard and with the approval of the monetary board, revoke the authorization or permit granted under section 4. (4) the central bank may in the circumstances referred to in subsection (1), without proceeding to revoke the authorization or the permit under subsection (3), after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard and where it deems it appropriate taking into consideration all the relevant circumstances– (a) require an authorized dealer or restricted dealer who engages in any dealing in relation to foreign assets contrary to the provisions of this act as referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1), to pay to the central bank within such time as may be specified in such requirement an amount not exceeding the amount or value of such foreign asset or any part thereof in foreign exchange or sri lanka currency together with such expenses incurred by the central bank for the detection and investigation of such transaction; or (b) impose a limitation on such authorized dealer or restricted dealer who has directly or indirectly been a party to the unauthorized transaction, from dealing in or engaging in current or capital transactions in relation to foreign exchange as the case may be, for a period not exceeding twelve months.