foreign exchange act, no. 12 of 2017 11 central bank may, on application made to a magistrate’s court by a person authorized in that behalf by the monetary board, within whose jurisdiction such investigation is made, obtain an order directing the authorized dealer or the restricted dealer or other person as the case may be whose foreign exchange transaction or foreign assets is or are being, or is or are to be, investigated, to appear before the authorized person or to produce such books or documents in the custody or control of such dealer or person as the central bank or the authorized person making the investigation may reasonably require for such investigation. (7) an application made under subsection (6) by a person authorized in that behalf by the monetary board shall contain— (a) the name and address of the authorized dealer or a restricted dealer or other person as the case may be whose foreign exchange transaction is being or is to be investigated; (b) the address of the premises in which the investigation is to be made; (c) the name of the authorized person making the investigation; and (d) a prayer for an order - (i) for the appearance of such dealer or person before the authorized person; (ii) for the production of the books and documents to the central bank or the authorized person; (iii) to refrain from obstructing the authorized person making an investigation under this section. 12 foreign exchange act, no. 12 of 2017 (8) (a) court may, after considering an application made under subsections (6) and (7) make an order prayed for under paragraph (d) of subsection (7) and such dealer or person shall comply with the order forthwith. (b) any dealer or person who fails to comply with an order of the court under paragraph (a) commits an offence and shall, on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand. (c) where the offence under paragraph (b) is a continuing offence, such dealer or person shall be liable to an additional fine of rupees hundred thousand for each day during which such offence continued. failure to 11. (1) where the central bank is satisfied that an comply with a authorized dealer or restricted dealer– provision of the act or any (a) deals in foreign exchange in any current transaction regulation, order, or capital transaction contrary to the provisions of direction, this act; guideline & etc. made or issued (b) deals in foreign exchange in relation to foreign thereunder. assets contrary to the provisions of this act; (c) fails to comply with any guideline or direction issued under subsections (1), (2) and (3) of section 9 or any requirement under subsection (4) of section9; or (d) violates any provision of this act or any regulation or order made thereunder, the central bank may, upon the minister being informed, issue a notice directing any such authorized dealer or restricted dealer to comply with the provisions of this act or any regulation, order, guideline or direction issued or made thereunder, within the period specified therein. (2) where any authorized dealer or restricted dealer fails to act in accordance with the notice issued under subsection