foreign exchange act, no. 12 of 2017 9 (3) the central bank may from time to time subject to the approval of the minister issue guidelines and directions to authorized dealers and restricted dealers engaging in transactions other than those referred to in subsections (1) and (2) relating to foreign exchange. (4) the central bank may from time to time subject to the approval of the minister issue guidelines and directions to any person, class or classes of persons not being an authorized dealer or restricted dealer, permitted to deal in foreign exchange within sri lanka under paragraph (c) of subsection (2) of section 4. (5) the central bank may for statistical and monitoring purposes, request an authorized dealer or a restricted dealer to furnish within such time as may be specified in such request, such information or returns in such form and manner in relation to any foreign exchange transaction engaged in by such dealer for a period of six years immediately prior to the date on which such request is communicated to such dealer. 10. (1) the central bank may, at any time, cause an investigations of investigation to be made, of foreign exchange transactions foreign exchange or foreign assets of any authorized dealer or a restricted dealer transactions and or any other person, class or classes of persons as the case foreign assets. may be, by an officer of the department of foreign exchange authorized in writing by the central bank (hereinafter referred to as an “authorized person”) in that behalf. (2) it shall be the duty of every authorized dealer or a restricted dealer or any other person, class or classes of persons – (a) to permit an authorized person entry into any premises for the purposes of such investigation; (b) to produce any books or other documents as may be required for the investigation by such authorized person; 10 foreign exchange act, no. 12 of 2017 (c) to permit such authorized person to retain for such time as may be necessary such books and other documents or to take copies or extracts; (d) to appear before the authorized person when required to do so by such authorized person; (e) to furnish such statement or information in relation to the investigation within such time and in such manner as the said authorized person may require; or (f) not to furnish information under this section, which to the knowledge of such dealer is false. (3) where an authorized person retains any book or document under subsection (2) the authorized person shall furnish to the person from whose custody or control such book or document was taken for detention, a copy of such book or document certified by such authorized person if a request for a copy is made by the person from whose custody or control such book or document was taken or the authorized person may without retaining original books or documents require the person to furnish true copies of such books or documents. (4) an authorized dealer or a restricted dealer or other person required to appear before the authorized person may be examined orally and any statement made by such dealer or person shall be reduced to writing and shall be signed by the dealer or person making the same. (5) for purposes of an investigation under subsection (1), the central bank or the authorized person may if the circumstances warrant, obtain the assistance of a police officer to prevent a breach of the peace, in the exercise of that right. (6) where the central bank apprehends any resistance in the course of an investigation under subsection (1), the