142 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(c) makes any die, seal block, machine, or other
instrument for the purpose of forging, or to be used
for forging, a Mark ; or
(d) applies any false trade description to goods ; or
(e) disposes of, or has in his possession, any die, seal
block, machine, or other instrument for the purpose
of forging a Mark ; or
(f) causes any of the things referred to in this subsection
to be done,
shall, subject to the provisions of this Part, and unless he proves
that he acted without intent to defraud, be guilty of an offence.
(2) Any person who sells or exposes for sale, or has in his
possession for sale, or any purpose of trade or manufacture,
any goods or things to which any forged Mark or false trade
description is applied, or to which any Mark so nearly
resembling a registered Mark so as to be likely to mislead, is
falsely applied, as the case may be, shall, unless he proves—
(a) that having taken all reasonable precautions against
committing an offence he had at the time of the
commission of the alleged offence no reason to
suspect the genuineness of the Mark, or trade
description ; and
(b) that on demand made by or on behalf of the
prosecutor he gave all the information in his power
with respect to the persons from whom he obtained
such goods or things ; or
(c) that otherwise he had acted innocently,
be guilty of an offence.
(3) Any person who imports any piece-goods ordinarily
sold by length or by the piece, manufactured outside
Sri Lanka, or who sells or exposes for, or has in his possession
for sale or any purpose of trade, any piece-goods ordinarily
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 143
sold by length or by piece, whether manufactured within or
outside the territory of Sri Lanka, which do not have
conspicuously stamped in English numerals on each piece,
the length thereof in standard metres, or in standard metres
and a fraction of such a metre, according to the real length
of the piece, shall be guilty of an offence :
Provided that nothing contained in this subsection shall
apply to any piece-goods manufactured within the limits of
Sri Lanka by hand labour only.
(4) Any person found guilty of an offence under this
section shall on conviction after trial before a Magistrate be
liable to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to
both such fine and such imprisonment, and in the case of a
second or subsequent conviction such fine or term of
imprisonment or both such fine and imprisonment may be
doubled.
(5) The Magistrate may, whether the alleged offender is
convicted or not, order that every chattel, article, instrument
or thing by means of or in relation to which the offence has or
might have been committed shall be destroyed or declared
forfeit to the State or otherwise dealt with as he may think fit.
187. Where an offence under this Act has been Offences by
committed by a body corporate, every person who at the bodies corporate.
time of the commission of the offence was a Director-
General, Manager, Secretary or other similar officer of that
body shall be deemed to be guilty of such offence, unless
he proves that the offence was committed without his consent
or connivance and that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of the offence.
188. For the purposes of this Part, the definitions Interpretation.
contained in section 101 shall apply, unless the context
otherwise requires.
144 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
False name or 189. (1) The provisions of this Part respecting the
initials.
application of a false trade description to goods, or respecting
goods to which a false trade description is applied, shall
extend to the application to goods—
(a) of any such figures, words, marks or arrangement
or combination thereof, whether including a
registered Mark or not, as are likely to lead persons
to believe that the goods are the manufacture or
merchandise of some person other than the person
whose manufacture or merchandise they really are;
(b) of any false name or initials of a person and to goods
with the false name or initials of a person applied,
in like manner as if such name or initials were a
trade description.
(2) For the purposes of this Part the expression “false
name or initials” means, as applied to any goods, any name
or initials of a person which—
(i) are not a Mark, or part of a Mark ; and
(ii) are identical with, or are a colourable imitation of,
the name or initials of a person carrying on business
in connection with goods of the same description,
and not having been authorized the use of such name
or initials ; and
(iii) are either those of a fictitious person or of some
person not, bona fide, carrying on business in
connection with such goods.
(3) A trade description which denotes or implies that in
any goods to which it is applied which contains more metres
or standard metres than contained therein, is a false trade
description.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 145
190. A person shall be deemed to forge a Mark who Forging marks.
either—
(a) without the assent of the owner of the Mark make
that Mark, or a Mark so nearly resembling that mark
as to be likely to mislead ; or
(b) falsifies any genuine Mark, whether by alteration,
addition, effacement or otherwise,
and any Mark so made or falsified is in this Part referred to
as a forged Mark :
Provided that in any prosecution for forging a Mark the
burden of proving the assent of the owner shall lie on the
accused.
191. Any person who— False declaration
to be an offence.
(a) Makes a false declaration to the Director-General ;
(b) Makes a false declaration in respect of geographical
indication inclusive of Ceylon Tea and Ceylon
Cinnamon,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand
rupees.
192. (1) Any person shall be deemed to apply a Mark Applying Marks
or trade description to goods who— and descriptions.
(a) applies it to the goods itself ; or
(b) applies it to any covering, label, reel or other thing
in or with which the goods are sold or exposed, or
had in possession for any purpose of sale, trade, or
manufacture ; or
(c) places, encloses, or annexes any goods which are
sold or exposed, or had in possession for the purpose
of sale, trade, or manufacture, in, with, or to any
covering, label, reel, or other thing to which a mark
or trade description has been applied ; or
146 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(d) uses a Mark, or trade description in any manner
likely to lead to the belief that the goods in
connection with which it is used are designated or
described by that Mark, or trade description.
(2) The expression “covering” includes any stopper, cask,
bottle, vessel, box, cover capsule, case, frame, or wrapper ;
and the expression “label” includes any band or ticket.
(3) A Mark or trade description shall be deemed to be
applied whether it is woven, impressed, stamped, branded,
or otherwise worked into or annexed, or affixed to the goods,
or any covering, label, reel, or other thing.
(4) A person shall be deemed to falsely apply to goods a
mark who, without the assent of the owner of a Mark, applies
such Mark or any Mark so nearly resembling it as to be
likely to mislead, but in any prosecution for falsely applying
a Mark to goods the burden of proving the assent of the
owner shall lie on the accused.
Exemption certain 193. Where a person is charged with of making any die,
persons employed stamp block, machine, or other instrument for the purpose of
in ordinary course
forging or being used for forging, a Mark, or with falsely
of business.
applying to goods any Mark or any Mark so nearly resembling
a mark as to be likely to mislead, or with applying to goods
any false trade description or causing any of the things in this
section mentioned to be done, and such person proves—
(a) that in the ordinary course of his business he is
employed, on behalf of other persons, to make dies,
stamps blocks, machines, or other instruments for
making, or to be used in making, Marks, or as the
case may be, to apply Marks or descriptions to goods
and that in the case which is the subject of the charge
he was so employed by some person resident in
Sri Lanka, and was not interested in the goods by
way of profit or commission dependent on the sale
of such goods ; and
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 147
(b) that he took reasonable precautions against
committing the offence charged with ; and
(c) that he had, at the time of the commission of the
alleged offence, no reason to suspect the geniunness
of the Mark or trade description ; and
(d) that he gave to the prosecutor all the information in
his power with respect to the person on whose behalf
the Mark or description was applied,
he shall be discharged from the prosecution, but shall be
liable to pay the costs incurred by the prosecutor unless he
gives due notice to the prosecutor regarding his intention to
rely on defence specified in this section.
194. In any indictment, charge, proceeding, or document Mark how
in which any mark or forged mark is required to be described in
pleading.
mentioned, it shall be sufficient, without further description
and without any copy or facsimile, to state that Mark or
forged Mark to be a Mark or forged Mark.
195. In any prosecution for and offence under this Part— Rules as to
evidence.
(a) an accused, and his or her spouse as the case may
be, may, if the accused thinks fit, be called as a
witness, and if called, shall be sworn and examined
and may be cross-examined and re-examined in like
manner as any other witness ;
(b) in the case of imported goods evidence of the port
of shipment shall be, prima facie, evidence of the
place or country in which the goods were made or
produced.
196. Any person who, being within Sri Lanka, abets Punishment of
the commission out side Sri Lanka of any act which, if accessories.
committed within Sri Lanka, would under this Part be an
offence, shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, and be
liable to be indicted, proceeded against, tried and convicted
in any district or place in Sri Lanka in which he may be as if
the offence had been committed therein.
148 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
For the purpose of this section “abet” shall have the same
meaning as in section 101 of the Penal Code.
Search warrant. 197. (1) (a) Upon receipt of information of an offence
being committed under this Part, a Magistrate may issue
either a summons requiring the person alleged to have
committed such offence to appear in court and show cause
or where such person fails to appear issue a warrant for the
arrest of such person ;
(b) The Magistrate may upon being satisfied by
information on oath that there are reasonable grounds to
believe that any goods or things by means of, or in relation
to, which such alleged offence has been committed are in
any house or premises of the person charged on the basis of
such information, or in his possession or under his control,
in any place, such Magistrate may issue a warrant under his
hand ;
(c) It shall be lawful for any police officer, or other person
named or referred to in the warrant, to enter such house,
premises, or place at any reasonable time of the day, and to
search therefore and seize such goods or things ; and
any goods or things seized under any such warrant shall be
brought before the Magistrate’s Court for the purpose of
determining whether such goods are liable to forfeiture under
this Part.
(2) (a) If the owner of any goods or things which, if the
owner thereof had been convicted, would be liable to
forfeiture under this Part, is unknown or cannot be found,
any information or complaint may be led for the purpose
only of enforcing such forfeiture, and a Magistrate may cause
notice to be published requiring reasons to be shown to the
contrary at the time and place named in the notice, as to
why such goods or things should not be forfeited.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 149
(b) If the owner or any person on his behalf, or other
person interested in the goods or things, fails to show
sufficient cause to the contrary at the time and place named
in the notice, Magistrate may order such goods or things or
any of them to be forfeited. Every such order shall be subject
to an appeal.
(3) Any goods or things forfeited under this section, or
under any other provisions of this Part, may be destroyed or
otherwise disposed of, in such manner as the Magistrate who
ordered the forfeiture may direct, and the Magistrate out of
any proceeds which may be realized by the disposition of
such goods (all marks and trade descriptions being first
obliterated), may make an award to an innocent party for
any loss he may have sustained in dealing with such goods.
198. In any prosecution under this Part the Court may Costs of defence
and of
order costs to be paid to the accused by the prosecutor or to
prosecution.
the prosecutor by the accused, having regard to the
information given by, and the conduct of, the accused and
prosecutor respectively, and the sum so awarded as costs
shall be recoverable as if it were a fine.
199. Where, at the commencement of this Act, a trade Provisions as to
false description
description is lawfully and generally applied to goods of a
not to apply in
particular class, or manufactured by a particular method, to certain cases.
indicate the particular class or method of manufacture of
such goods, the provisions of this Part with respect to false
trade descriptions shall not apply to such trade description
when so applied :
Provided that where such trade description includes the
name of a place or country, which is likely to mislead as to
the place or country where the goods to which it is applied
were actually made or produced, and the goods are not actually
150 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
made or produced in that place or country, the provisions of
this section shall not apply unless there is added to the trade
description, immediately before or after the name of that
place or country, in an equally conspicuous manner, the name
of the place or country in which the goods were actually
made or produced, with a statement that they were made or
produced there.
Savings. 200. (1) The Provisions of this Part shall not exempt any
person from any action, suit, or other proceeding which might,
but for the provisions of this Part, be brought against him.
(2) Nothing in this Part shall entitle any person to refuse
to make a complete discovery, or to answer any question or
interrogatory in any action, but such discovery or answer
shall not be admissible in evidence against such person in
any prosecution for an offence under this Part.
(3) Nothing in this Part shall be construed so as to make
any servant of a master resident in Sri Lanka liable to a suit
or prosecution due to disclosure of information regarding
the servant of a master, when required by or on behalf of the
prosecutor who, bona fide, acts in compliance with the
instructions of such master.
Cognizable and 201. All offences under this Part shall be cognizable
bailable offences. and bailable, within the meaning of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979. The provisions of the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act shall apply to any offence
committed under this Part.
Limitation of 202. No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall
prosecution.
be commenced after the expiration of three years after the
commission of the offence charged or two years after the
discovery thereof by the prosecutor, which ever expiration
first occurs.
