40 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(12) On receipt of the observations of the applicant the
Director-General shall after hearing the parties, where taking
all the circumstances into consideration he considers such
hearing necessary, decide, as expeditiously as possible,
whether or not the industrial design may be registered. If he
decides that the industrial design is registrable he shall
accordingly register such industrial design—
(a) where no appeal is preferred against his decision,
upon the expiry of the period within which an appeal
may be preferred against his decision ;
(b) where an appeal is preferred against his decision,
upon the dismissal of such appeal, as the case may
be.
(13) The Director-General may allow a reasonable
extension of the prescribed period within which any act has
to be done or any fee has to be paid under this section.
Issue of certificate 41. Upon the registration of an industrial design, the
of registration. Director-General shall issue to the registered owner thereof
a Certificate of Registration and shall, at the request of the
registered owner, send such certificate to him by registered
post to his last recorded postal address in Sri Lanka or, if he
is resident outside Sri Lanka, to his last recorded postal
address.
Register of 42. (1) The Director-General shall keep and maintain
Industrial a register called the “Register of Industrial Designs” wherein
Designs. shall be recorded, in the order of their registration, all
registered industrial designs and such other particulars
relating to the industrial designs as are authorised or directed
by this Part to be so recorded or may from time to time be
prescribed
(2) The registration of an industrial design shall include
a representation of the industrial design and shall specify its
number, the name and address of the registered owner and,
if the registered owner is resident outside Sri Lanka, a postal
address for service in Sri Lanka ; the date of application and
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 41
registration ; if priority is validly claimed, an indication of
that fact and the number, date and country of the application
on the basis of which the priority is claimed ; the kinds and
classes of products referred to in paragraph (d) subsection
(1) of section 36 and the name and address of the creator of
the industrial design, if he has requested his name to be
indicated as such in the registration.
43. Any person may examine the register and may obtain Examination of
certified extracts therefrom on payment of the prescribedfee. register and
certified copies.
44. The Director-General shall cause to be published Publication of
in the Gazette, in the prescribed form, all registered industrial registered
industrial designs.
designs in the order of their registration, including in respect
of each industrial design so published reference to such
particulars as may be prescribed.
CHAPTE R VI
DURATIONOF REGISTRATIONOFAN INDUSTRIAL DESIGN
45. Subject to, and without prejudice to the other
Duration of
provisions of this Part, registration of an industrial design registration.
shall expire on the completion of five years from the date of
receipt of the application for registration.
46. (1) Registration of an industrial design may be Renewal.
renewed for two consecutive periods of five years each, on
an application made in that behalf and on payment of the
prescribed fee.
(2) The renewal fee shall be paid within the six months
preceding the date of expiration of the period of registration:
Provided, however, that a period of grace of six months
shall be allowed for the payment of the fee after the date of
such expiration, upon payment of such surcharge as may be
prescribed.
(3) The Director-General shall record in the register and
cause to be published in the Gazette in the prescribed form
a list of all renewals of registration of industrial designs.
42 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(4) Where the renewal fee has not been paid within such
period or such extended period as is specified in subsection
(2), the Director-General shall remove from the relevant
register the registration relating to such industrial design.
CHAPTER VII
RIGHTSOFA REGISTERED OWNEROFAN INDUSTRIAL DESIGN
Rights of a 47. (1) Subject and without prejudice to other
registered owner provisions of this Part, the registered owner of an industrial
of an industrial
design shall in relation to such industrial design have the
design.
exclusive rights to —
(a) reproduce and embody such industrial design in
making a product ;
(b) import, offer for sale, sell or use a product
embodying such industrial design ;
(c) stock for the purpose of offering for sale, selling or
using, a product embodying such industrial design;
(d) assign or transmit the registration of the industrial
design ;
(e) conclude licence contracts.
(2) No person shall do any of the acts referred to in
subsection (1) without the consent of the registered owner
of the industrial design.
(3) The acts referred to in subsection (1), if done by
any unauthorized person, shall not be lawful solely by reason
of the fact that the reproduction of the registered industrial
design differs from the registered industrial design in minor
respects or that the reproduction of the registered industrial
design is embodied in a type of product different from a
product embodying the registered industrial design.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 43
48. The provisions of subsection (1) of section 47 shall— Limitation of
registered owner’s
(1) extend only to acts done for industrial or rights.
commercial purposes ;
(2) not preclude third parties from performing any of
the acts referred to therein in respect of a product
embodying the registered industrial design after the
said product has been lawfully manufactured,
imported, offered for sale, sold, used or stocked in
Sri Lanka.
CHAPTER VIII
ASSIGNMENTAND TRANSMISSIONOF APPLICATIONS FOR
REGISTRATIONOFINDUSTRIALDESIGNSAND REGISTRATIONS
OFTHESAME
49. (1) An application for registration or the registration Assignment and
of an industrial design may be assigned or transmitted and transmission of
applications and
such assignment or transmission shall be in writing signed
registrations.
by or on behalf of the contracting parties.
(2) Any person becoming entitled by assignment or by
transmission to an application for registration or the
registration of an industrial design may apply to the Director-
General in the prescribed manner along within the prescribed
fee to have such assignment or transmission recorded in the
register.
(3) No such assignment or transmission shall be
recorded in the register unless the prescribed fee has been
paid to the Director-General.
(4) No such assignment or transmission shall have effect
against third parties unless so recorded in the register.
50. In the absence of any agreement to the contrary Joint ownership of
between the parties, joint owners of an application for applications and
registration.
registration or the registration of an industrial design may,
separately, assign or transmit their rights in the application
44 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
or registration, use the industrial design and exercise the
exclusive rights referred to in paragraphs (a) to (c) of
subsection (1) of section 47, but may only jointly withdraw
the application, renounce the registration or conclude a
licence contract.
CHAPTER IX
LICENCE CONTRACTSOFINDUSTRIALDESIGNS
Interpretation. 51. For the purposes of this Part licence contract means
any contract by which the registered owner of an industrial
design (“the Licensor”) grants to another person or enterprise
(“the licensee”) a licence to do any or all of the acts referred
to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of subsection (1) of
section47.
Form and record 52. (1) A licence contract shall be in writing signed by
of licence or on behalf of the contracting parties.
contract.
(2) Upon a request in writing signed by or on behalf of
the contracting parties, the Director-General shall on
payment of the prescribed fee, record in the register such
particulars relating to the contract as the parties thereto
requires to be recorded :
Provided that the parties shall not be required to disclose
or have recorded any other particulars relating to the said
contract.
Rights of licensee. 53. In the absence of any provision to the contrary in
the licence contract, the licensee shall—
(a) be entitled to do any or all of the acts referred to in
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of subsection (1) of
section 47 within Sri Lanka, during the period of
validity of the registration of the industrial design,
inclusive of the period of renewl if any ;
(b) not be entitled to assign or transmit his rights under
the licence contract or grant sub-licenses to third
parties.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 45
54. (1) In the absence of any provision to the contrary Rights of licensor.
in the licence contract, the licensor may grant further licenses
to third parties in respect of the same industrial design or on
behalf of himself do any or all of the acts referred to in sub-
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of subsection (1) of section 47.
(2) Where the license contract provides that the license
is exclusive, and unless it is expressly provided otherwise in
such contract, the licensor shall not grant further licenses to
third parties in respect of the same industrial design or not
execute any of the acts referred to in sub-paragraphs (a), (b)
and (c) of subsection (1) of section 47 or cause to be executed.
55. Any clause or condition in a license contract shall Invalid clauses in
be null and void in so far as it imposes upon the licensee, in license contracts.
industrial or commercial field, restrictions not derived from
the rights conferred by this Part on the registered owner of
an industrial design, or unnecessary for safeguarding of such
rights :
Provided that—
(a) restrictions concerning the scope, extent, or duration
of use of the industrial design, or the geographical
area in or the quality or quantity of the products in
connection with which the industrial design may
be used; and
(b) obligations imposed upon the licensee to refrain
from all acts capable of prejudicing the validity of
the registration of the industrial design,
shall not be deemed to constitute such restrictions.
56. Where, before the expiration of the license contract Effect of nullity of
the registration is declared null and void the licensee in such registration of
license contract.
event not be required to make any payment to the licensor
under the licence contract, and shall be entitled to
reimbursement of the payments already made :
46 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Provided that the licensor shall not be required to make
any repayment, or be required to make repayment in part, to
the extent of his ability to prove that such repayment would
be inequitable having considerd all the circumstances and
in particular whether the licensee has effectively profited
from the licence.
Expiry, 57. The Director-General shall—
termination or
invalidation of (1) if he is satisfied that a recorded licence contract
licence has expired or been terminated, record that fact in
contract.
the register upon a request in writing to that effect
signed by or on behalf of the parties thereto ;
(2) record in the register the expiry, termination or
invalidation of a licence contract under any
provision of this Part.
Licence 58. (1) Where the Director-General has reasonable
contracts cause to believe that any licence contract or any amendment
involving
or renewal thereof—
payments
abroad.
(a) which involves the payment of royalties abroad ;or
(b) which by reason of other circumstances relating to
such licence contract,
is detrimental to the economic development of Sri Lanka he
shall in writing communicate such fact to the Governor of
the Central Bank and transmit all papers in his custody
relevant to the matter which are essential to the making of a
decision on such matter to the Governor of the Central Bank.
(2) Where the Governor of the Central Bank on receipt
of any communication under subsection (1) informs the
Director-General in writing that the said licence contract or
any amendment or renewal thereof is detrimental to the
economic development of Sri Lanka, the Director-General
shall cancel and invalidate the record of such contract in the
register.
(3) The provisions of this section shall apply, mutatis
mutandis, to assignment and transmissions.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 47
(4) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply mutatis
mutandis, to sub-licences.
CHAPTER X
RENUNCIATIONAND NULLITYOF REGISTRATIONOFINDUSTRIAL
DESIGN
59. (1) The registered owner of an industrial design may Renunciation of
renounce the registration by a declaration in writing signed registration.
by him or on his behalf in writing and submit it to the
Director-General.
(2) The Director-General shall, on receipt of the said
declaration, record it in the register and cause such record
to be published in the Gazette.
(3) The renunciation shall take effect from the date that
the Director-General receives the said declaration.
(4) Where a licence contract in respect of an industrial
design is recorded in the register the Director-General shall
not, in the absence of any provision to the contrary in such
licence contract, accept or record the said renunciation except
upon receipt of a signed declaration by which every licensee
or sub-licensee on record consents to the said renunciation,
unless the requirement of their consent is expressly waived
in the licence contract.
60. (1) The Court may on the application, to which the Nullity of
registered owner of the industrial design and every assignee, registration.
licensee or sub-licensee on record shall be made a party, of
any person having a legitimate interest, or of any competent
authority including the Director-General, declare the
registration of the industrial design null and void on any one
or more of the following grounds—
(a) that the provisions of sections 29, 30 and 31 have
not been complied with :
48 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Provided, however, that the grounds of nullity
referred to in subsection (2) of section 29 shall not
be taken into account if such grounds are not
apparent on the date of the making of the application
to Court;
(b) that the identical industrial design has been
previously registered upon a prior application or
has been conferred earlier priority by virtue of an
application in that behalf upon the ground of prior
registration in another country ;
(c) that the essential elements of the registered
industrial design have been unlawfully derived from
the creation of another person within the meaning
of section 33.
(2) Where an application under subsection (1) of this
section relates to several industrial designs, included in the
registration and any ground for nullity applies to some, the
Court shall declare such registration null and void in so far
as it relates to the industrial design in respect of which the
ground for nullity applies.
Date and effect of 61. (1) Upon a final decision of the Court declaring
nullity. total or partial nullity of the registration of an industrial
design, the registration shall be deemed to have been null
and void totally or partially, as the case may be, from the
date of such registration.
(2) When a declaration of nullity becomes final the
Registrar of the Court shall notify the Director-General who
shall record such declaration in the register and cause it be
published in the Gazette.
