30 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(b) works first published in Sri Lanka, works first
published in another country and hereupon
published in Sri Lanka, within thirty days from such
publication, irrespective of the nationality or
residence of the author.
(2) The provisions of this Part shall also apply to works
that are protected in Sri Lanka by virtue of, and in accordance
with, any international convention or any international
agreement to which Sri Lanka is a party.
Protection of 27. (1) The provisions of this Part in respect of
performers. protection of performers shall apply to—
(a) performers who are nationals of Sri Lanka ;
(b) performers who are not nationals of Sri Lanka but
whose performances :—
(i) take place on the territory of Sri Lanka ; or
(ii) are incorporated in sound recordings that are
protected under this Part ; or
(iii) have not been fixed in a sound recording but
are included in broadcasts qualifying for
protection under this Part.
(2) The provisions of this Part on the protection of sound
recodings, shall apply to—
(a) sound recordings the producers of which, are
nationals of Sri Lanka ;
(b) sound recordings first fixed in Sri Lanka ; and
(c) sound recordings first published in Sri Lanka.
(3) The provisions of this Part on the protection of
broadcasts shall apply to—
(a) broadcasts of broadcasting organisations where the
registered office of such organisations are situated
in Sri Lanka; and
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 31
(b) broadcasts transmitted from transmitters situated
in Sri Lanka.
(4) The provisions of this Part shall in addition apply to
performers, producers of sound recordings and broadcasting
orgainsations protected by virtue of, and in accordance with,
any international convention or any international agreement
to which Sri Lanka is a party.
PART III
CHAPTER III
INDUSTRIAL DESIGNS
SCOPEOFTHISPARTANDDEFINITIONS
28. The protection of industrial designs provided under Conditions for
this Part shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any protection.
other protection provided under any other written law, in
particular under Part II of this Act.
29. The protection provided under this Part shall— Scope of this Part.
(a) apply only to new industrial designs ;
(b) not apply to an industrial design which consists
of any scandalous design or is contrary to morality
or public order or public interest or which, in the
opinion of the Director-General or of any Court
to which such matter has been referred to is likely
to offend the religious or racial susceptibilities of
any community.
30. For the purposes of this Part any composition of Definition of
lines or colours or any three dimensional form, whether or industrial design.
not associated with lines or colours, that gives a special
appearance to a product of industry or handicraft and is
capable of serving as a pattern for a product of industry or
handicraft shall be deemed to be an industrial design :
32 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Provided that anything in an industrial design which serves
solely to obtain a technical result shall not be protected under
this Part.
Definition of 31. (1) For the purpose of this Part a new industrial
novelty. design means an industrial design which had not been made
available to the public anywhere in the world and at any
time whatsoever through description, use or in any other
manner before the date of an application for registration of
such industrial design or before the priority date validly
claimed in respect thereof.
(2) An industrial design shall not be deemed to have
been made available to the public solely by reason of the
fact that, within the period of six months preceding the filing
of an application for registration, it had been a displaly at
an official or officially recognized, international exhibition.
(3) An industrial design shall not be considered a new
industrial design solely by reason of the fact that it differs
from an earlier industrial design in minor respects or that it
concerns a type of product different from a product
embodying an earlier industrial design.
CHAPTER IV
RIGHTTO PROTECTIONOF INDUSTRIAL DESIGN
Ownership and 32. (1) The right to obtain protection of an industrial
right to protection design belongs to its owner.
of industrial
design.
(2) Subject to provisions of section 34, the owner of an
industrial design or his successor in title is its creator .
(3) Where two or more persons have jointly created an
industrial design, the right to obtain protection shall belong
to them jointly :
Provided that a person who has merely assisted in the
creation of an industrial design but has made no contribution
of a creative nature shall not be deemed to be the creator or
a co-creator of such industrial design.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 33
(4) Subject to the provisions of sections 33 and 34 the
person who makes the first application for the registration
of an industrial design or the person who first validly claims
the earliest priority for his application shall be deemed to be
the creator of such industrial design.
33. (1) Where the essential elements of an industrial Industrial design.
design, are the subject of an application for registration or
have been derived from an industrial design, for which the
right to protection belongs to another person, such other
person may apply in writing to the Director-General to assign
the said application or registration to him.
(2) The application for assignment shall be forwarded
with the prescribed fee and evidence to substantiate the claim
of the applicant. Where the registration has already been
effected, the application under subsection (1) shall be made
within one year from the date of the publication of the
registration under section 44.
(3) The Director-General shall forthwith send a copy
of such application for assignment to the applicant for
registration or the registered owner of the industrial design,
who shall within a period of three months from the date of
such notice forward to the Director-General a counter
statement in the prescribed manner together with the
prescribed fee and evidence to substantiate his claim.
(4) If the applicant or the registered owner forwards a
counter statement as referred to in subsection (3), the
Director-General shall after hearing the parties, if he
considers it necessary decide as expeditiously as possible
whether the application or registration should be assigned
and, where applicable whether the register should be
rectified. If the applicant or the registered owner fails to
forward a counter statement as provided for in subsection
(3) within the period of three months, the Director-General
shall allow the application referred to in subsection (1).
34 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(5) Where, after an application for the registration of an
industrial design has been filed, the person to whom the right
to protection belongs gives his consent to the filling of the
said application, such consent shall, for all purposes, be
deemed to have been effective from the date of filling of
such application.
Industrial design 34. (1) In the absence of any provision to the contrary
created by the in any contract of employment or for the execution of work,
employee to the ownership of an industrial design created in the
accrue to
performance of such contract or in the execution of such
employer.
work shall be deemed to accrue to the employer, or the person
who commissioned the work, as the case may be :
Provided that where the industrial design acquires an
economic value much greater than the parties could
reasonably have foreseen at the time of concluding the
contract of employment or for the execution of work, as the
case may be, the creator shall be entitled to equitable
remuneration which may be fixed by the Court on an
application made by the creator to Court in the absence of
an agreement between the parties.
(2) Where an employee whose contract of employment
does not require him to engage in any creative activity
creates, in the field of activities of his employer, an industrial
design using data or means placed at his disposal by his
employer, the ownership of such industrial design shall be
deemed to accrue to the employer in the absence of any
provision to the contrary in the contract of employment :
Provided that the employee shall be entitled to equitable
remuneration, which in the absence of agreement between
the parties, may be fixed by the Court on an application
made by the employee, taking into account his emoluments,
the economic value of the industrial design and any benefit
derived from it by the employer.
(3) The rights conferred on the creator of an industrial
design by subsections (1) and (2) shall not be restricted by
contract.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 35
35. (1) The creator of an industrial design shall be named Naming of creator
as such in the registration, unless by a declaration in writing of an industrial
design.
signed by him or any person authorized by him in writing in
that behalf and submitted to the Director-General indicates
his willingness to forgo his name being used in such
registration.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) not be altered, varied
or modified by the terms of any contract.
CHAPTER V
REQUIREMENTSOF APPLICATIONAND PROCEDUREFOR
REGISTRATIONOFAN INDUSTRIAL DESIGN
36. (1) An application for registration of an industrial Requirements of
design shall be made to the Director-General in the prescribed application.
form and shall be accompanied by the prescribed fee and
shall contain—
(a) a request for registration of the industrial design ;
(b) the name, address and description of the applicant
and, if he is a resident outside Sri Lanka, a postal
address for service in Sri Lanka ;
(c) a specimen of the article embodying the industrial
design or copies of a photographic or graphic
representation of the industrial design, in colour
where it is in colour, or drawings and tracings of
the design ;
(d) an indication of the kind of products for which the
industrial design is to be used and, where the
regulations make provision for classification, an
indication of the class or classes in which such
products are included ;
(e) a declaration by the applicant that the industrial
design is new to the best of his knowledge.
