150 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
made or produced in that place or country, the provisions of
this section shall not apply unless there is added to the trade
description, immediately before or after the name of that
place or country, in an equally conspicuous manner, the name
of the place or country in which the goods were actually
made or produced, with a statement that they were made or
produced there.
Savings. 200. (1) The Provisions of this Part shall not exempt any
person from any action, suit, or other proceeding which might,
but for the provisions of this Part, be brought against him.
(2) Nothing in this Part shall entitle any person to refuse
to make a complete discovery, or to answer any question or
interrogatory in any action, but such discovery or answer
shall not be admissible in evidence against such person in
any prosecution for an offence under this Part.
(3) Nothing in this Part shall be construed so as to make
any servant of a master resident in Sri Lanka liable to a suit
or prosecution due to disclosure of information regarding
the servant of a master, when required by or on behalf of the
prosecutor who, bona fide, acts in compliance with the
instructions of such master.
Cognizable and 201. All offences under this Part shall be cognizable
bailable offences. and bailable, within the meaning of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979. The provisions of the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act shall apply to any offence
committed under this Part.
Limitation of 202. No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall
prosecution.
be commenced after the expiration of three years after the
commission of the offence charged or two years after the
discovery thereof by the prosecutor, which ever expiration
first occurs.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 151
203. On the sale, or in the contract for the sale, of any Implied warranty
goods to which a Mark, or trade description has been applied, on sale of marked
goods.
the vendor shall be deemed to warrant that the Mark is a
genuine Mark, and not forged or falsely applied, or that the
trade description is not a false trade description within the
meaning of this Part, unless the contrary is expressed in writing
signed by or on behalf of the vendor and delivered at the time
of the sale or contract to, and accepted by, the vendee.
CHAPTER XXXIX
REGULATIONS
204. (1) The Minister may from time to time make Regulations.
regulations for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to
the principles and provisions of this Act and in particular in
respect of any matter required under this Act to be prescribed.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1) the Minister may make
regulations in respect of any or all of the following matters:–
(a) the procedure of registration ;
(b) the classification of goods and services for the
purposes of registration ;
(c) the fees payable in respect of registration and other
matters ;
(d) the forms to be used for any purpose under the Act;
(e) the setting up of organizations to administer rights
specified in Part II on behalf of the owners of such
rights and the conditions under which such
organizations are required to work ;
(f) the admission, registration, cancellation, removal
and any other matter relating to agents specified in
Chapter XXXVI of the Act ;
(g) The manner of the administration of the Patent
Co-operation Treaty in Sri Lanka ;
152 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(h) all matters which under this Act have been
placed under the direction or control of the
Director-General.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified therein.
(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette be brought
before the Parliament for approval. Any such regulation
which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as
from the date of its disapproval, but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall be
published in the Gazette.
CHAPTER XL
AMENDMENTOF HIGH COURTOFTHE PROVINCES
(SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT, NO. 10 OF 1996
Amendment of 205. High Court of the Provinces (Special Provisions)
Act No. 10 of Act, No. 10 of 1996 is hereby amended as follows :—
1996.
(1) by the repeal of item 3 of the First Schedule to that
Act and substitution therefore of the following :—
“All proceedings required to be taken under the
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 in the High
Court established under Article 154 P of the
Constitution”.
(2) by the repeal of item 2 of the Second Schedule to
the Act.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 153
CHAPTER XLI
AMENDMENTOFTHE CUSTOMS ORDINANCE
206. Section 101 of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter Amendment of
235) is hereby amended by the insertion immediately section 101 of the
Customs
after paragraph (e) of that section of the following new
Ordinance.
paragraph :— (Chapter 235)
“(ee) for prohibiting of importation and exportaion of
counterfeit trade mark goods or pirated copyright
goods or any other goods in contravention of the
provisions of the Intellectual Property Act, No. 36
of 2003”.
207. The Customs Ordinance hereinafter referred to as Insertion of new
“the Ordinance ”is hereby amended in P art XIII of that sections in the
Customs
Ordinance by the insertion immediately after section 125
Ordinance.
thereof of the following new sections :—
“Inclusion of 125A. (1) The importation of counterfeit
prohibited trade mark goods or pirated copyright goods
goods in
or any other goods in contravention of the
Schedule B of
Customs provisions of the Intellectual Property Act,
Ordinance. No. 36 of 2003 (hereinafter referred to as the
“Act”) shall be prohibited and such goods shall
be included among the goods the importation
of which, are prohibited under section 43 of
the Ordinance and included in Schedule B of
the Ordinance as prohibited goods.
(2) The exportation of the goods referred
to in subsection (1) of this section shall be
prohibited and such goods shall be included
among the goods the exportation of which, are
prohibited as if they were referred to in section
44 of the Ordinance and included in Schedule
B of the Ordinance as prohibited goods.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in any other law, prohibited goods referred to in
subsections (1) and (2) of this section, shall be
disposed of outside the channels of commerce
154 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
or if such disposal damages the interests of the
owner of any right protected under the Act, be
destroyed.
(4) “Counterfeit trade mark goods” mean
any goods including packaging, bearing
without authorization a trade mark which is
identical to a trade mark validly registered in
respect of such goods or which cannot be
distinguished in its essential aspects from such
a trade mark, and which thereby infringes the
rights of the owner of the trade mark recognised
by the Act.
(5) “Pirated copyright goods” mean any
goods which are made without the consent of
the copyright holder or person duly authorised
by the copyright holder in the country of
production and which are made directly or
indirectly from an article where the making of
that copy would have constituted an
infringement of a copyright or a related right
by the Act.
Suspension of 125B. (1) A right holder, who has valid
certain goods grounds to believe that the importation of
by Customs
counterfeit trade mark or pirated copyright
Authorities.
goods or of any other goods in contravention
of the right holder’s rights under the Act is
taking place, may make an application in
writing to the Director-General, of customs
requiring him to suspend of the release of such
goods into free circulation.
(2) A right holder who makes an application
under subsection (1) shall provide adequate
evidence to satisfy the Director-General of
Customs that there is a, prima facie, case of
infringement of the right holder’s rights under
the Act and supply a sufficiently detailed
description of the goods to make them readily
recognisable by any officer of the Customs.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 155
(3) (a) The Director-General of customs
shall have the power to require an applicant to
provide a security or equivalent assurance
sufficient to protect the defendant and to
prevent any abuse ;
(b) Where pursuant to an application made
under subsection (1), the Director-General of
customs suspends the release of any goods into
free circulation, he shall forthwith cause the
importer and the applicant to be promptly
notified the the suspension.
(4) If the Director-General of customs fails
to receive any notice regarding the institution
of proceedings in respect of the of release of
any goods suspended under subsection (3),
within a period not exceeding ten working days
after the applicant has been informed of the
suspension as provided for in subsection (3),
he shall cause the goods to be released,
provided all other conditions for importation
or exportation have been complied with.
(5) Where pursuant to an application made
under subsection (1), the Director-General of
customs has suspended the release of any goods
into free circulation and the period referred to
in subsection (4) has expired without the
granting of any provisional relief by a Court,
and provided that all other conditions for
importation have been complied with, the
owner, importer or consignee of such goods
shall be entitled to have such goods released.
(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in
the preceding provisions of this section, where
the suspension of the release of any goods is
carried out or continued in accordance with an
156 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
order of court, the provisions of subsection 4
of section 170 of Intellectual Property Act,
No. 36 of 2003, shall apply.
(7) The court shall have the power to order
the applicant to pay the importer, the consignee
and the owner of the goods, appropriate
compensation for any harm caused to them
through the wrongful detention of goods or
through the detention of goods released pursuant
to the preceding provisions of this section.
(8) Without prejudice to the protection of
confidential information, the Court shall have
power to give the right holder sufficient
opportunity to have any goods detained by the
customs authorities inspected in order to
substantiate the right holder’s claims. The
Court shall in addition have power to give the
importer an equivalent opportunity to have any
such goods inspected.
(9) Without prejudice to other rights of
action open to the right holder and the defendant,
the Court shall have the power to order the
destruction or disposal of any infringing goods
in accordance with the principals set out in
section 170 of Intellectual Property Act, No. 36
of 2003. In regard to counterfeit trade mark
goods, the Court shall not other than in
exceptional circumstances allow the re-
exportation of the infringing goods in an
unrelated state or subject them to a different
customs procedure.
(10) The provisions of sections 125A and
125B shall not apply to small quantities of
goods of a non-commercial nature contained
in a traveller’s personal luggage or forwarded
in small consignments.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 157
(11) In this section, the expressions
“counterfeit trade mark goods” and “pirated
copyright goods” shall have the same meanings
as are assigned to them in section 125A.”.
CHAPTER XLII
REPEALSAND SAVINGS
208. (1) The Code of Intellectual Property Act, No. 52 Repeals and
of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as the “Code”) is hereby savings.
repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Code the National
Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka established under
the Code, and the officials appointed under the Code shall
continue and shall be deemed to have been established and
appointed respectively under this Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Code every
regulation made thereunder as in force on the date of
commencement of this Act, in so far as such regulation is
not inconsistent, with the provisions of this Act shall be
deemed to be made under this Act, and such regulations may
be amended, rescinded or altered by regulations made under
this Act.
(4) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Code—
(a) Every application for registration of an Industrial
Design, Patent or Mark made to the Director-
General under the provision of the code and pending
on the date immediately preceeding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be
an application made to the Director-General under
Part III, IV or V respectively of this Act, and shall
be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of
this Act ;
158 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(b) any right specified in Part II of this Act, which was
granted on the date of coming into operation of the
repealed Code shall for all purposes except for the
purpose of imposing punishment, continue to be valid
and effectual as if herein granted provided that the
term of protection previously granted has not expired
under the Code or under the laws of the country of
origin of such work, performance, sound recording
or broadcast that are to be protected under any
international treaty to which Sri Lanka is a party ;
(c) every action, proceeding or other matter relating to
Copyright, Industrial Desingns, Patents, Marks and
unfair competition pending on the day immediately
preceeding the date of the commencement of this
Act, shall be deemed to have been instituted under
the provision of this Act and shall be continued and
proceeded with under the provisions of this Act ;
(d) nothing in Part III, IV, V or VI of this Act shall affect
any order or requirement made, table of fees or
certificates issued, notice, decision, determination,
direction or approval given, application made, or
thing done, under the Code, and every such order,
requirement, table of fees, certificate, notice,
decision, determination, direction, approval,
application or thing shall, if in force on the date
immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be deemed to have been made under
the provisions of this Act and shall continue in force
and shall, so far as it could have been made, issued,
given or done under this Act have effect as if made,
issued, given or done under the corresponding
provisions of this Act ;
(e) all contracts, leases and agreements subsisting on
the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act shall be deemed for all
purposes to be contracts, leases or agreements made
or entered into by or with or for the office, under
the provisions of this Act.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 159
(f) all interests, rights, obligations, debts and liabilities
of the office subsisting on the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be deemed to be the interest, rights,
obligations, debts and to liabilities of the office,
under the provisions of this Act.
209. The validity of the original entry of a Design on Saving of
the register of Designs existing on the day immediately Designs.
preceeding the date of commencement of this Act or any
register of Designs which was kept under any previous law
and was incorporated with and declared to form Part of the
Register of Designs, shall be deemed to have been registered
under Part III of this Act. Every such Design shall however
retain its original date.
210. The validity of the original entry of a Patent on Savings of
the register of Patents existing on the day immediately Patents.
preceeding the date of commencement of this Act or any
Register of Patents which was kept under the previous laws
and was incorporated with and declared to form Part of the
Register of Patent shall be deemed to have been registered
under Part IV of this Act. Every such Patent shall however
retain its Original date.
211. (a) The validity of the original entry of a Mark on Savings of Marks.
the Register of Marks existing on the day immediately
preceeding the date of commencement of this Act or any
register of Marks which was kept under any previous law
and was incorrporated with and declared to form Part of the
Register of Marks shall be deemed to have been registered
under Part V of this Act. Every such Mark shall however
retain its original date.
(b) No mark which was on the Register on the day
immediately after the date of commencement of the Code and
which under the Code was then a registrable mark shall be
removed from the Register on the ground that it was not
registrable under the law in force at the date of its registration.
160 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(c) No mark which was on the Register on the day
immediately preceeding the date of commencement of the
Act and which under Part V is a registrable mark shall be
removed from the register on the ground that it was not
registrable, under the law in force at the date of its
registration.
(d) Nothing in Part V shall—
(i) invalidate the original registration of a
mark which had validity on the register
immediately before the date of commencement
of this Act ; or
(ii) subject any person to any liability in respect to
any act or thing done before the date of
commencement of this Act, to which he would
not have been subject under the law in force at
the time such act or thing was done.
CHAPTER XLIII
INTERPRETATION
Interpretation. 212. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires—
“Central Bank of Sri Lanka” means the Central Bank
of Sri Lanka established under the Monetary Law
Act (Chapter 422) ;
“convention country” means any country that has
acceded to or ratified or that may hereafter accede
to or ratify the Paris Convention for the protection
of Industrial Property, as well as all members of
the World Trade Organisation or States that may
here after become members of the World Trade
Organisation, and includes any country which has
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 161
entered into or which may hereafter enter into any
treaty, convention or arrangement with Sri Lanka
creating reciprocal rights and obligations between
such country and Sri Lanka in regard to Industrial
Designs, Patents and Marks and any other
matter provided for by the Act and the registration
thereof ;
“convention” means the Paris Convention for the
protection of Industrial Property, World Trade
Organisation or any other international or regional
convention, treaty or arrangement to which Sri
Lanka is party creating reciprocal rights and
obligations between such country and Sri Lanka in
regard to Industrial Designs, Patents. Marks and any
other matter provided for by the Act and the
registration there of ;
“Court” means a High Court established under Article
154P of the Constitution for a Province empowered
with civil jursidiction by Order published in the
Gazette under section 2 of the High Court of Provinces
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of 1996 when the
party or parties defendant to such action resides or
reside or the cause of action has arisen or the contract
sought to be enforced was made within the Province
for which such High Court is established, or where no
such High Court is established for any Province or
vested with such civil jurisdiction the High Court
established for the Western Province ;
“Transgenic” means an organism that expresses a
characteristic not attainable normally by the species
under natural circumstances, but which has been
added by means of direct human intervention in its
genetic composition.”.
213. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala text to
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail in case of
inconsistency.
prevail.
162 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,
LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
