70 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Rights of licensee. 92. In the absence of any provision to the contrary in
the licence contract, the licensee shall—
(a) be entitled to do all or any of the acts referred to in
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) and subsection (3)
of section 84 within the territory of Sri Lanka,
without limitation as to time and through application
of the patented invention ;
(b) not be entitled to assign or transmit his rights under
the licence contract or grant sub-licences to third
parties.
Rights of the 93. (1) In the absence of any provision to the contrary
licensor. in the licence contract, the licensor may grant further licences
to third parties in respect of the same patent or perform all
or any of the acts referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection
(1) and subsection (3) of section 84.
(2) Where the licence contract provides the licence to
be exclusive, and unless it is expressly provided otherwise
in such contract, the licensor shall not grant further licences
to third parties in respect of the same patent or perform all
or any of the acts referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection
(1) and subsection (3) of section 84.
Invalid clauses 94. Any term or condition in a licence contract shall be
in licence null and void in so far as it imposes upon the licensee, in the
contracts.
industrial or commercial field, restrictions not derived from
the rights conferred by this Part on the owner of the patent,
or unnecessary for the safeguarding of such rights :
Provided that—
(a) restrictions concerning the scope, extent or duration
of exploitation of the patented invention, or the
geographical area in or the quality or quantity of
the products in connection with, which the patented
invention may be exploited ; and
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 71
(b) obligations imposed upon the licensee to abstain
from all acts capable of prejudicing the validity of
the patent,
shall not be deemed to constitute such restrictions.
95. Where, before the expiration of the licence contract, Effect of patent
any of the following events occur in respect of the patent application not
being granted or
application or patent referred to in such contract—
patent being
declared null and
(a) the patent application is withdrawn ; void.
(b) the patent application is finally rejected ;
(c) the patent is surrendered ;
(d) the patent is declared null and void ; or
(e) the registration of the licence contract is invalidated,
the licensee shall no longer be required to make any payment
to the licensor under the licence contract, and shall be entitled
to repayment of the payments already made :
Provided that the licensor shall not be required to make
any repayment, or repayment only in part, if he can prove
that any such repayment would be inequitable under the
circumstances, in particular if the licensee has effectively
profited from the licence.
96. The Director-General shall— Expiry,
termination or
invalidation of
(a) if he is satisfied that a recorded licence contract
licence contract to
has expired or been terminated, record that fact in be recorded.
the register upon a request in writing to that effect
signed by or on behalf of the parties thereto ;
(b) record in the register the expiry, termination or
invalidation of a licence contract under any
provision of this Part.
72 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Licence contracts 97. (1) Where the Director-General has reasonable
involving cause to believe that any licence contract or any amendment
payments abroad.
or renewal thereof—
(a) which involves the payment of royalties abroad ; or
(b) which by reason of other circumstances relating to
such licence contract,
is detrimental to the economic development of Sri Lanka,
he shall in writing communicate such fact to the Governor
of the Central Bank and transmit all papers in his custody
relevant to a decision on such matter to the Governor of the
Central Bank.
(2) Where on receipt of any communication under
subsection (1) the Governor of the Central Bank informs the
Director-General in writing that the said licence contract or
any amendment or renewal thereof is detrimental to the
economic development of Sri Lanka, the Director-General
shall cancel and invalidate the record of such contract in the
register.
(3) The provisions of this section shall apply, mutatis
mutandis, to assignments and transmissions.
(4) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply, mutatis
mutandis, to sub-licence.
(5) The provisions of this Chapter shall have no
application to a licence referred to in subsection (2) of section
86.
CHAPTER XVIII
SURRENDERAND NULLITYOF PATENT
Surrender of 98. (1) The registered owner of a patent may surrender
patent. the patent by a declaration in writing signed by him or by
any person authorized by him on his behalf and shall submitt
it to the Director-General.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 73
(2) The surrender may be limited to one or more claims
of the patent.
(3) The Director-General shall, on receipt of the said
declaration record it in the register or cause it to be registered
and shall cause such record to be published in the Gazette.
(4) The surrender shall take effect from the date of
receipt of such declaration by the Director-General.
(5) Where a licence contract in respect of a patent is
recorded in the register, the Director-General shall not, in
the absence of provision to the contrary in such licence
contract, accept or record the said surrender except upon
receipt of a signed declaration by which every licensee or
sub-licensee on record consents to the said surrender, unless
the requirement of his consent is expressly waived in the
licence contract.
99. (1) The Court may on the application of any person Nullity of patent.
showing a legitimate interest, or of any Competent Authority
including the Director-General, to which the owner of the
patent and every assignee, licensee or sub-licensee on record
shall be made party, declare the patent null and void on any
one or more of the following grounds:—
(a) that what is claimed as an invention in the patent is
not an invention within the meaning of subsection
(1) of section 62, or is excluded from protection
under subsection (3) of section 62, or subsection
(1) of section 79, or is not patentable due to the
failure to satisfy the requirements of sections 63,
64, 65 and 66 ; or
(b) that the description or the claims, fails to satisfy
the requirements of subsections (3) and (4) of
section71; or
(c) that any drawings required for the understanding of
the claimed invention have not been furnished ; or
74 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(d) that the right to the patent belongs to a person other
than the person to whom the patent was granted :
Provided that the patent has not been assigned to the
person to whom the right to the patent belongs.
(2) (a) Where the provisions of subsection (1) apply
only to some of the claims or some parts of a claim, such
claims or parts of a claim may be declared null and void by
the court.
(b) The nullity of part of a claim shall be declared in
the form of a corresponding limitation of the claim in
question.
(3) (a) An assignee, licensee or sub-licensee, as the case
may be, who has been made party to the application under
subsection (1), shall be entitled to join in the proceedings in
the absence of any provision to the contrary in any contract
or agreement with the owner of the patent.
(b) Where the application to Court is on the ground
referred to in paragraph (d) of subsection (1), the applicant
shall give notice of the application to the person to whom
the right to the patent is alleged to belong.
Date and effect of 100. (1) Upon a final decision of the Court declaring
nullity.
total or partial nullity of a patent, the patent shall be deemed
to have been null and void, totally or partially, as the case
may be, as from the date of the grant of such patent.
(2) When a declaration of nullity becomes final the
Registrar of the Court shall notify the Director-General who
shall record the said declaration in the register and cause it
to be published in the Gazette.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 75
PART V
CHAPTER XIX
MARKSAND TRADE NAMES
101. For the purposes of this Part, unless the context Definitions.
otherwise requires—
“certification mark” means a mark indicating that the
goods or services in connection with which it is
used are certified by the proprietor of the mark in
respect of origin, material, mode of manufacture
of goods or performance of services, quality,
accuracy or other characteristics ;
“collective mark” means any visible sign designated as
such and serving to distinguish the origin or any
other common characteristic of goods or services
of different enterprises which use the mark under
the control of the registered owner ;
“enterprise” means any business, industry or other
activity carried on by an individual, partnership,
company, or co-operative society wherever
registered or incorporated and whether registered
or not under any law for the time being in force
relating to companies, co-operative societies or
businesses engaged in or proposing to engage in
any business and includes any business undertaking
of the Government or any State Corporation whether
carrying on business in Sri Lanka or otherwise ;
“false trade description” means a trade description which
is false or misleading in a material respect as regards
the goods or services to which it is applied, and
includes every alteration of a trade description,
whether by way of addition, effacement or
otherwise, where that alteration makes the
description false or misleading in a material respect,
76 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
and the fact that a trade description is a trade mark
or part of a trade mark shall not prevent such trade
description being a false trade description within
the meaning of this Part ;
“geographical indication” means an indication which
identifies any goods as originating in the territory
of a country, or a region or locality in that territory,
where a given quality, reputation or other
characteristic of the good is essentially attributable
to its geographical origin ;
“goods” means anything which is the subject of trade,
manufacture or merchandise and includes services;
“indication of source” means any expression or sign used
to indicate that a product or service originates in a
given conutry or group of countries, region, or
locality ;
“mark” means a trade mark or service mark ;
“name” includes any abbreviation of a name ;
“person” means manufacturer, dealer, trader or owner
and includes any body of persons, corporate or
unincorporate ;
“service mark” means any visible sign serving to
distinguish the services of one enterprise from those
of an other enterprise ;
“trade description” means any description, statement
or other indication, direct or indirect—
(a) as to the number, quantity, measure, gauge,
or weight of any goods ; or
(b) as to the place or country in which any goods
were made or produced ; or
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 77
(c) as to the mode of manufacturing or producing
any goods ; or
(d) as to the material of which any goods are
composed ; or
(e) as to any goods being the subject of an
existing copyright, related rights, industrial
design or patent or any other matter protected
under this Act ; or
(f) as to the quality, kind or nature of the
services; or
(g) as to the standard of quality of any goods,
according to a classification commonly used
or recognized in the trade ; or
(h) as to the fitness for purpose, strength,
performance or behaviour of any goods,
and the use of any figure, word or mark which,
according to the custom of the trade, is commonly
taken to be an indication of any of the above
matters shall be deemed to be a trade description
within the meaning of this Part ;
“trade mark” means any visible sign serving to
distinguish the goods of one enterprise from those
of another enterprise ; and
“trade name” means the name or designation identifying
the enterprise of a natural or legal person.
78 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
CHAPTER XX
ADMISSIBILITYOF MARKS
Admissibility of 102. (1) The exclusive right to a mark conferred by this
marks. Part shall be acquired, subject to the succeeding provisions,
by registration.
(2) Registration of a mark may be granted to the person
who—
(a) is the first to fulfill the conditions of a valid
application; or
(b) is the first to validly claim the earliest priority for
his application :
Provided however such mark shall not be inadmissible
under sections 103 and 104.
(3) A mark may consist in particular, of arbitrary or
fanciful designations, names, pseudonyms, geographical
names, slogans, devices, reliefs, letters, numbers, labels,
envelopes, emblems, prints, stamps, seals, vignettes,
selvedges, borders and edgings, combinations or
arrangements of colours and shapes of goods or containers.
Marks 103. (1) A mark shall not be registered—
inadmissible on
objective grounds.
(a) which consists of shapes or forms imposed by the
inherent nature of the goods or services or by their
industrial function ;
(b) which consists exclusively of a sign or indication
which may serve, in the course of trade, to designate
the kind, quality, quantity, intended purpose, value,
place of origin or time of production, or of supply,
of the goods or services concerned ;
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 79
(c) which consists exclusively of a sign or indication
which has become, in the current language or in
the bona fide and established practices of trade in
SriLanka, a customary designation of the goods or
services concerned ;
(d) which, is incapable of distinguishing the goods or
services of one enterprise from those of another
enterprise ;
(e) which consists of any scandalous design or is
contrary to morality or public order or which, in
the opinion of the Director-General or of any court
to which the matter may be referred to, as the case
may be, is likely to offend the religious or racial
susceptibilities of any community ;
(f) which is likely to mislead trade circles or the public
as to the nature, the source, geographical indication
the manufacturing process, the characteristics, or
the suitability for their purposes, of the goods or
services concerned ;
(g) which does not represent in a special or particular
manner the name of an individual or enterprise ;
(h) which is, according to its ordinary signification, a
geographical name or surname ;
(i) which reproduces or imitates armorial bearings,
flags or other emblems, initials, names or
abbreviated names of any State or any inter-
governmental international organization or any
organization created by international convention,
unless authorized by the Competent Authority of
that State or international organization ;
(j) which reproduces or imitates official signs or hall-
marks of a State, unless authorized by the
Competent Authority of that State ;
80 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(k) which resembles in such a way as to be likely to
mislead the public, a mark or a collective mark or a
certification mark the registration of which has
expired and has not been renewed during a period
of two years preceding the filing of the application
for the registration of the mark in question or where
its renunciation, removal or nullity has been
recorded in the register during a period of two years
preceding the filing of the application for the mark
in question;
(l) the registration of which has been sought in respect
of goods or services the trading of which is
prohibited in Sri Lanka;
(m) which consists of any other word or definition as
may be prescribed.
(2) The Director-General shall in applying the provisions
of paragraphs (b), (c) , (d), (f), (g) and (h), of subsection (1),
have regard to all the factual circumstances and, in particular,
the length of time the mark has been in use in Sri Lanka or in
other countries and the fact that the mark is held to be
distinctive in other countries or in trade circles.
Marks 104. (1) The Director-General shall not register a
inadmissible by mark—
reason of third-
party rights.
(a) which resembles, in such a way as to be likely to
mislead the public, a mark already validly filed or
registered by a third party, or subsequently filed by
a person validly claiming priority, in respect of
identical or similar goods or services in connection
with which the use of such mark may be likely to
mislead the public ;
(b) which resembles, in such a way as to be likely to
mislead the public, an unregistered mark used
earlier in Sri Lanka by a third party in connection
with identical or similar goods or services, if the
applicant is aware, or could not have been unaware,
of such use ;
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 81
(c) which resembles, in such a way as to be likely to
mislead the public, a trade name already used in
Sri Lanka by a third party, if the applicant is aware.
or could not have been unaware, of such use ;
(d) if it is identical with, or misleadingly similar to, or
constitutes or translation or transliteration or
transcription of a mark or trade name which is well
known in Srl Lanka for identical or similar goods
or services of a third party, or such mark or trade
name is well known and registered in Sri Lanka
for goods or services which are not identical or
similar to these in respect of which registration is
applied for, provided in the latter case the use of
the mark in relation to those goods or services would
indicate a connection between those goods or
services and the owner of the well known mark and
that the interests of the owner of the well known
mark are likely to be damaged by such use ;
(e) which infringes other third party rights or is contrary
to the provisions of Chapter XXXII relating to the
prevention of unfair competition ;
(f) which is filed by the agent or a representative of a
third party who is the owner of such mark in another
country, without the authorization of such owner,
unless the agent or representative justifies his action.
(2) The following criteria shall be taken into account in
determining whether a mark is well known :—
(i) particular facts and circumstances relating to each
mark ;
(ii) any fact or circumstance from which it may be
inferred that the mark is well known ;
(iii) the degree of knowledge or recognition of the mark
of the relevant sector of the public ;
(iv) the duration, extent and geographical area of use
of the mark ;
82 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(v) the duration, extent and geographical area of
promotion of the mark, including advertising or
publicity and the presentation at any fair or
exhibition of the goods or services to which the
mark applies ;
(vi) the duration and geographical area of the
registration or the application for registration, of
the mark, to the extent that they reflect use or
recognition of the mark ;
(vii) the record of successful enforcement of rights in
the mark, in particular, the extent to which the mark
has been recognized as being well known, by the
Competent Authority ;
(viii) the value associated with the mark ;
(ix) the criteria specified in this subsection to determine
whether a mark is well known or not shall not be
exclusive nor exhaustive ;
(x) for the purpose of this subsection —
(a) “Competent Authority” means an
administrative, judicial or quasi-judicial
authority which is competent, to determine
whether a mark is well known mark or to
enforce the protection given to a well known
mark ;
(b) “relevant sector of public” includes :—
(i) actual or potential consumers of the types
of goods or services to which the mark
applies ;
(ii) persons involved in channels of
distribution of the types of goods or
services to which the mark applies ;
(iii) any person or a body of persons dealing
with the type of goods or services to which
the mark applies.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 83
(3) The Director-General shall, in applying the
provisions of paragraphs (a) to (e) of subsection (1), have
regard to the fact that the third parties referred to therein
have consented to the registration of such mark.
105. There shall not be entered in the register a notice Trust not to be
of any Trust expressed, implied, or constructive, nor shall entered in register.
any such notice be receivable by the Director-General.
CHAPTER XXI
REQUIREMENTSOF APPLICATIONAND PROCEDUREFOR
REGISTRATION
106. (1) An application for registration of a mark shall Requirements of
be made to the Director-General in the prescribed form and application.
shall contain —
(a) a request for the registration of the mark ;
(b) the name, address of the applicant and, if he is
resident outside Sri Lanka, a postal address for
service in Sri Lanka ;
(c) five copies of a representation of the mark ;
(d) a clear and complete list of the particular goods or
services in respect of which registration of the mark
is requested, with an indication of the corresponding
class or classes in the international classification,
as may be prescribed.
(2) Where the application is filed through an agent, it
shall be accompanied by a power of attorney granted to such
agent by the applicant.
107. An applicant for registration of a mark who wishes Right of priority.
to avail himself of the priority of an earlier application filed
in a Convention country shall, within six months of the date
of such earlier application, append to his application a written
declaration indicating the date and number of the earlier
application, the name of the applicant and the country in
84 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
which he or his predecessor in title filed such application
and shall, within a period of three months from the date of
the later application filed in Sri Lanka, furnish a copy of the
earlier application certified as correct by the appropriate
authority of the country where such earlier application was
filed.
Temporary 108. (1) An applicant for registration of a mark who
protection of mark has exhibited goods bearing the mark or rendered services
exhibited at
under the mark at an official or officially recognized
international
exhibition. international exhibition and who applies for registration of
the mark within six months from the date on which the goods
bearing the mark or services under the mark were first
exhibited or services respectively at such exhibition, shall
on request, be deemed to have applied for registration of
that mark on the date on which the goods bearing the mark
or the services rendered under the mark were first exhibited
or rendered at such exhibition.
(2) Evidence of the exhibition of the goods bearing the
mark or the services rendered under the mark shall be by a
certificate issued by the appropriate Authority of the
exhibition stating the date on which the mark was first used
at such exhibition in connection with such goods or services.
(3) The provisions of subsections (1) and (2) shall not
extend to any other period of priority claimed by the
applicant.
Application fee. 109. An application for registration of a mark shall not
be entertained unless the prescribed fee has been paid to the
Director-General.
Examination 110. (1) The Director-General shall examine whether
of application the applicant for registration of the mark satisfies the
as to form. requirements specified in sections 106 and 109 and where
applicable the provisions of sections 107 and 108.
(2) Where the applicant fails to comply with the
provision of sections 106 and 109, the Director-General shall
refuse to register the mark :
