84 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
which he or his predecessor in title filed such application
and shall, within a period of three months from the date of
the later application filed in Sri Lanka, furnish a copy of the
earlier application certified as correct by the appropriate
authority of the country where such earlier application was
filed.
Temporary 108. (1) An applicant for registration of a mark who
protection of mark has exhibited goods bearing the mark or rendered services
exhibited at
under the mark at an official or officially recognized
international
exhibition. international exhibition and who applies for registration of
the mark within six months from the date on which the goods
bearing the mark or services under the mark were first
exhibited or services respectively at such exhibition, shall
on request, be deemed to have applied for registration of
that mark on the date on which the goods bearing the mark
or the services rendered under the mark were first exhibited
or rendered at such exhibition.
(2) Evidence of the exhibition of the goods bearing the
mark or the services rendered under the mark shall be by a
certificate issued by the appropriate Authority of the
exhibition stating the date on which the mark was first used
at such exhibition in connection with such goods or services.
(3) The provisions of subsections (1) and (2) shall not
extend to any other period of priority claimed by the
applicant.
Application fee. 109. An application for registration of a mark shall not
be entertained unless the prescribed fee has been paid to the
Director-General.
Examination 110. (1) The Director-General shall examine whether
of application the applicant for registration of the mark satisfies the
as to form. requirements specified in sections 106 and 109 and where
applicable the provisions of sections 107 and 108.
(2) Where the applicant fails to comply with the
provision of sections 106 and 109, the Director-General shall
refuse to register the mark :
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 85
Provided however the Director-General shall first notify
the applicant of any defect in the application and shall afford
him an opportunity to rectify such defect within three months
from the date of receipt of such notification.
(3) The date on which the applicant rectifies such defect
shall be deemed to be the date of receipt of the application
for registration.
(4) Where the applicant fails to comply with the
provisions of section 107 or 108, the Director-General shall
not, in connection with the registration of the mark, make
any reference to the priority claimed.
(5) Where the applicant complies with the provisions
of sections 107 and 108, the Director-General shall in
connection with the registration of the mark record the
priority claimed or the date of the certified use of the mark
at an international exhibition.
(6) Where the Director-General refuses to register a
mark, he shall, if so requested by the applicant, state in
writing the grounds of his decision.
111. (1) Where the applicant complies with the Registration of
provisions of sections 106 and 109, the Director-General mark after further
shall examine the mark in relation to the provisions of examination and
publication of
sections 103 and 104.
mark.
(2) Where the mark is inadmissible under section 103
or 104 the Director-General shall notify the applicant
accordingly stating in writing the grounds on which
registration of the mark is refused.
(3) Where the applicant is dissatisfied with all or any
of the grounds stated by the Director-General in the
notification referred to in subsection (2) he may, within a
period of one month from the date of such notification, make
his submissions against such refusal to the Director-General,
in writing .
(4) On receipt of any submissions the Director-General
may inform the applicant that he has been granted a hearing
and the date, time and place of such hearing.
86 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(5) The Director-General may, after such inquiry as he
thinks fit, refuse to accept the application for registration of
the mark, or may accept it absolutely or subject to conditions,
amendments or modifications, or to such limitations, if any,
as to the mode or place of user or otherwise as he may think
fit to impose.
(6) In case of any refusal or conditional acceptance of
an application for registration of a mark, the Director-General
shall, if required by the applicant within a period of three
months from such refusal or conditional acceptance, state
in writing the grounds of his decision.
(7) Where the Director-General is of the opinion that
the mark is admissible under section 103 or 104 he may
request the applicant to pay the prescribed fee within a
prescribed period for publication of the application.
(8) The Director-General shall refuse registration of the
mark where the fee for publication of the application is not
paid within the prescribed period.
(9) (a) If the fee for publication is paid within the
prescribed period the Director-General shall proceed to
publish the application setting out the date of application,
the representation of the mark, the goods or services in
respect of which registration of the mark is requested with
an indication of the corresponding class or classes, the name
and address of the applicant and, if the applicant is resident
outside Sri Lanka, a postal address for service in Sri Lanka,
the priority claimed, if any, or the date of certified use of the
mark at an international exhibition.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (7),
(8) and paragraph (a) of this subsection relating to the
prescribed fee and the publication, the Director-General may,
at his discretion, require the applicant by notice in writing
to publish an application as referred to in paragraph (a) of
this subsection. Where the applicant fails or neglects to
publish such application within a period of three months
from the date of such notice the application may be refused.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 87
(10) Where any person considers that the mark is
inadmissible on one or more of the grounds specified in
section 103 or 104 he may, within a period of three months
from the date of publication of the application, give to the
Director-General in the prescribed form, and together with
the prescribed fee, notice of opposition to such registration
stating his grounds of opposition accompanied by evidence
to substantiate such grounds.
(11) Where notice of opposition has not been received
by the Director-General within the period specified in
subsection (10) of this section, the Director-General shall
register the mark.
(12) Where, within the period specified in subsection
(10) of this section notice of grounds of opposition in the
prescribed form is received by the Director-General, together
with the prescribed fee, he shall serve a copy of such grounds
of opposition on the applicant and shall requset him to present
his observations on those grounds in writing accompanied
by evidence to support his application within a period of
three months.
(13) On receipt of the observations of the applicant the
Director-General shall after hearing the parties, if he
considers such hearing necessary, decide, as expeditiously
as possible, whether such mark should be registered or not.
If the Director-General decides that the mark can be
registered, then if —
(a) no appeal is preferred against his decision, upon
the expiry of the period within which an appeal
may be preferred against his decision ;
(b) an appeal is preferred against his decision, upon
the determination of such appeal,
the Director-General shall accordingly register such mark.
(14) The Director-General may allow a reasonable
extension of the prescribed period within which any act has
to be done or any fee has to be paid under this section.
88 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Noncompletion 112. Where, by reason of default on the part of the
of registration.
applicant, the registration of a mark is not completed within
twelve months from the date of receipt by the Director-
General of the application, the Director-General shall, after
giving notice of non-completion to the applicant in writing
in the prescribed form, treat the application as abandoned,
unless it is completed within the time specified in that behalf
in such notice.
Register of marks 113. (1) The Director-General shall keep and maintain
and issue of a register called the “Register of Marks” wherein shall be
certificate.
recorded in the order of their registration, all registered marks
and such other matters relating to marks as are authorized
or directed by this Part to be so recorded or may from time
to time be prescribed.
(2) The registration of a mark shall include a
representation of the mark and shall specify its number, the
name and address of the registered owner and, if the
registered owner’s address is outside Sri Lanka, a postal
address for service in Sri Lanka, the dates of application
and registration ; if priority is validly claimed, an indication
of that fact and the number, date and country of the
application on the basis of which the priority is claimed, if
a valid certificate has been filed relating to the use of a mark
at an international exhibition, the contents of such certificate,
the list of goods and services in respect of which registration
of the mark has been granted with an indication of the
corresponding class or classes.
(3) Upon the registration of a mark the Director-General
shall issue to the registered owner thereof a certificate of
registration and shall, at the request of the registered owner,
send such certificate to him by registered post to his last
recorded postal address in Sri Lanka, or if he is resident
outside Sri Lanka to his last recorded postal address in Sri
Lanka.
