48 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Provided, however, that the grounds of nullity
referred to in subsection (2) of section 29 shall not
be taken into account if such grounds are not
apparent on the date of the making of the application
to Court;
(b) that the identical industrial design has been
previously registered upon a prior application or
has been conferred earlier priority by virtue of an
application in that behalf upon the ground of prior
registration in another country ;
(c) that the essential elements of the registered
industrial design have been unlawfully derived from
the creation of another person within the meaning
of section 33.
(2) Where an application under subsection (1) of this
section relates to several industrial designs, included in the
registration and any ground for nullity applies to some, the
Court shall declare such registration null and void in so far
as it relates to the industrial design in respect of which the
ground for nullity applies.
Date and effect of 61. (1) Upon a final decision of the Court declaring
nullity. total or partial nullity of the registration of an industrial
design, the registration shall be deemed to have been null
and void totally or partially, as the case may be, from the
date of such registration.
(2) When a declaration of nullity becomes final the
Registrar of the Court shall notify the Director-General who
shall record such declaration in the register and cause it be
published in the Gazette.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 49
PART IV
CHAPTER XI
DEFINITIONS
62. (1) For the purposes of this Part, “invention” means Definition of
an idea of an inventor which permits in practice the solution invention.
to a specific problem in the field of technology.
(2) An invention may be, or may relate to, a product or
process.
(3) The following, notwithstanding they are inventions
within the meaning of subsection (1), shall not be
patentable—
(a) discoveries, scientific theories and mathematical
methods ;
(b) plants, animals and other micro organism other than
transgenic micro organism and an essentially
biological process for the production of plants and
animals other than non-biological and
microbiological processes:
Provided however, that a patent granted in
respect of micro-organisms shall be subject to the
provisions of this Act;
(c) schemes, rules, or methods for doing business,
performing purely mental acts or playing games ;
(d) methods for the treatment of the human or animal
body by surgery or therapy, and diagnostic methods
practiced on the human or animal body :
Provided however, any product used in any such
method shall be patentable;
(e) an invention which is useful in the utilization of
special nuclear material or atomic energy in an
atomic weapon;
50 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(f) any invention, the prevention within Sri Lanka of
the commercial exploitation of which is necessary
to protect the public order, morality including the
protection of human, animal or plant life or health
or the avoidance of serious prejudice to the
environment.
Patentable 63. An invention is patentable if it is new, involves an
inventions. inventive step and is industrially applicable.
Novelty. 64. (1) An invention is new if it is not anticipated by
prior art.
(2) Prior art shall consist of—
(a) everything disclosed to the public, anywhere in the
world, by written publication, oral disclosure, use
or in any other way, prior to the filing or, where
appropriate, priority date of the patent application
claiming the invention ;
(b) the contents of patent application made in Sri Lanka
having an earlier filing or, where appropriate,
priority date than the patent application referred to
in paragraph (a), to extent that such contents are
included in the patent granted on the basis of the
said patent application made in Sri Lanka.
(3) A disclosure made under paragraph (a) of subsection
(2) shall be disregarded—
(a) if such disclosure occurred within one year
preceding the date of the patent application and if
such disclosure or in consequence of acts committed
by the applicant or his predecessor in title ;
(b) if such disclosure occurred within six months
preceding the date of the patent application and if
such disclosure was by reason or in consequence
of any abuse of the rights of the applicant or his
predecessor in title.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 51
65. An invention shall be considered as involving an Inventive step.
inventive step if, having regard to the prior art relevant to
the patent application claiming the invention, such inventive
step would not have been obvious to a person having ordinary
skill in the art.
66. An invention shall be considered industrially Industrial
applicable if it can be made or used in any kind of industry. application of
invention.
CHAPTER XII
RIGHTTOA PATENT
67. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 68 the right Right to a
to a patent shall belong to the inventor. patient.
(2) Where two or more persons have jointly made an
invention, the right to a patent shall belong to them jointly.
(3) If and to the extent to which two or more persons
have made the same invention independently of each other,
the person whose application has the earliest filling date or,
if priority is claimed, the earliest validly claimed priority
date, shall have the right to the patent, so long as that
application is not withdrawn, abandoned or rejected.
68. Where the essential element of the invention claimed Assignment of
in a patent application or patent have been unlawfully derived patent application
or patent, by court
from an invention for which the right to the patent belongs
in case of
to another person, such other person may apply to the Court
usurpation.
for an order that the said patent application or patent be
assigned to him :
Provided that where, after a patent application has been
filed, the person to whom the right to the patent belongs
gives his consent to the filing of the said patent application,
such consent shall, for all purposes, be deemed to have been
effective from the date of filing of such application :
Provided also that the Court shall not entertain an
application for the assignment of a patent after the expiry of
a period of five years from the date of grant of the patent.
52 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Inventions made 69. (1) In the absence of any provision to the contrary
by an employee in any contract of employment or for the execution of work,
or pursuant to a the right to a patent for an invention made in the performance
commission.
of such contract of employment or in the execution of such
work shall be deemed to accrue to the employer, or the person
who commissioned the work, as the case may be :
Provided that where the invention acquires an economic
value much greater than the parties could reasonably have
foreseen at the time of entering the contract of employment
or for the execution of work, as the case may be, the inventor
shall be entitled to equitable remuneration which may be
fixed by the Court an application made to it in that behalf,
in the absence of an agreement between the parties.
(2) Where an employee whose contract of employment
does not require him to engage in any inventive activity,
makes in the field of activities of his employer, an invention
using data or means placed at his disposal by his employer,
the right to the patent for such invention shall be deemed to
accrue to the employer, in the absence of any provision to
the contrary in the contract of employment :
Provided that the employee shall be entitled to equitable
remuneration which, in the absence of agreement between
the parties, may be fixed by the Court, taking into account
his emoluments an application made to it in that behalf the
economic value of the invention and any benefit derived
from it by the employer.
(3) The rights conferred on the inventor under
subsections (1) and (2) shall not be restricted by contract.
Naming of 70. (1) The inventor shall be named as such in the
inventor. patent, unless by a declaration in writing signed by him or
on his behalf and submitted to the Director-General, he
indicates his decision to forgo his name being included in
the patent.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not be
modified by the terms of any contract.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 53
CHAPTER XIII
REQUIREMENTSOF APPLICATIONAND PROCEDURE
FOR GRANTOFA PATENT
71. (1) (a) An application for the grant of a patent shall Requirements of
be made to the Director-General in the prescribed form and applications
shall contain—
(i) a request for the grant of the patent ;
(ii) a description of the patent;
(iii) a claim or claims ;
(iv) a drawing or drawings, where required ;
(v) an abstract ;
(vi) date and number of any application for a patent
filed by the applicant abroad (hereinafter referred
to as the “foreign application”), if any, relating to
the same, or essentially the same invention as that
claimed in the present application ;
(vii) a declaration that the applicant or his predecessor
in title has not obtained a patent abroad before the
application was filed relating to the same or
essentially the same invention as that claimed in
the application.
(b) If the declaration referred to in sub-paragraph (vii)
of paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of this section is found to
be false, the Court may declare the patent to be null and
void on an application made to it by any interested party or
a Competent Authority including the Director-General. The
registered owner of the patent, assignees and licensees shall
be made party to that application.
54 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(c) Where the applicant’s ordinary residence or principal
place of business is outside Sri Lanka, he shall be represented
by an agent resident in Sri Lanka whose name and address
shall be given in the application, and the application shall
be accompanied by a power of attorney granted to such agent
by the applicant.
(d) The application may be accompanied by a
declaration signed by the inventor, giving his name and
address and requesting that he be named as such in the patent.
(2) (a) The request shall contain –
(i) a petition that the patent be granted ;
(ii) the title of the invention;
(iii) the name, address, description and any other
prescribed information concerning the applicant,
the inventor and the agent, if any.
(b) Where the applicant is not the inventor, the request
shall be accompanied by a statement justifying the applicant’s
right to the patent.
(c) The Director-General shall send a copy of the
statement referred to in paragraph (b) to the inventor who
shall have the right to inspect the application and to receive,
on payment of the prescribed fee, a copy thereof.
(3) The description shall disclose the invention in a
manner sufficiently clear and complete for the invention to
be evaluated, and to be carried out by a person having
ordinary skill in the relevant technology and shall, in
particular, indicate the best mode known to the applicant
for carrying out the invention.
(4) The claim or claims shall be clear, concise and
supported by the description.
(5) Drawings shall be required when they are necessary
for the understanding of the invention.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 55
(6) The terms of any claim shall determine the scope
and extent of the protection afforded by the patent, and the
description and drawings may be used to interpret such claim.
(7) The abstract shall serve the purpose of technical
information and shall not be used for the purpose of
determining or interpreting the scope and extent of the
protection afforded by the patent.
(8) Any application filed outside Sri Lanka under the
Patent Corporation Treaty for a patent designating Sri Lanka
shall if the applicant files a corresponding application with
the Director-General be deemed to be an application made
under this Act.
For the purposes of this Chapter “the Patent Corporation
Treaty” means the Patent Corporation Treaty made in
Washington on June19th 1970, as amended from time
totime.
72. An application for the grant of a patent shall not be Application fee.
entertained unless prescribed fee has been paid to the
Director-General.
73. (1) Every applicant shall furnish, within the Search report.
prescribed period, a report, which if not in English shall be
accompanied by a translation thereof in English, of a search
which shall conform such type as may be prescribed :
Provided, however, that in lieu of the said search an
applicant may request the Director-General to refer the
application to a local examiner who shall examine the
application on the basis of any claim with due regard to the
description and the drawings, if any, and furnish a report to
the Director-General within the prescribed period, on the
relevant prior art, after making the required effort to discover
as much of the relevant prior art as facilities permit ; and for
the purposes of the search the local examiner shall make
reference to every documentation on prior art available to
him.
56 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(2) The applicant shall, when requiring the Director-
General to refer his application to a local examiner, forward
such application with the prescribed fee to Director-General.
(3) (a) The applicant shall, at the request of the Director-
General, furnish him with the following documents in respect
of any foreign application for a patent filed by him abroad
relating to the same or essentially the same invention as that
claimed in the application filed under this Act –
(i) a copy of any communication received by the
applicant concerning the results of any search or
examination carried out in respect of the foreign
application ;
(ii) a copy of the patent granted on the basis of the
foreign application ; and
(iii) a copy of any final decision rejecting the foreign
application or refusing the grant of a patent
requested in the foreign application.
(b) The applicant shall, at the request of the Director–
General, furnish him with a copy of any final decision
invalidating the patent granted on the basis of the foreign
application referred to in paragraph (a).
(4) For this purposes of the section “local examiner”
means any skilled person to whom the Director-General may
refer questions concerning patents.
Unity of 74. An application shall relate to one invention only or
invention. to a group of inventions which are so linked to each other so
as to form a single general inventive concept.
Amendment 75. (1) An applicant may amend the application,
and division provided that the amendment shall not exceed the limits of
of application. the disclosure in the initial application.
(2) (a) An applicant may divide the application into
two or more applications (hereinafter referred to as
“divisional applications”) provided that each divisional
application shall not exceed the limits of disclosure in the
initial application.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 57
(b) Each divisional application shall be entitled to the
filing, or where applicable, priority, from date of the initial
application.
(3) An amendment to an application or a division of an
application shall be subject to the payment of a prescribed
fee.
76. (1) An application may contain a declaration
Right of priority.
claiming the priority, pursuant to the Convention, of one or
more earlier national, regional or international applications
filed by the applicant or his predecessor in title in or for any
State party to the said Convention.
(2) Where the application contains a declaration under
subsection (1), the Director-General may require the
applicant to furnish, within the prescribed period, a copy of
the earlier application, certified as correct by an officer
authorized in that behalf, for that purpose by the Office with
which it was filed or, where the earlier application is an
international application filed under the Patent Co-operation
Treaty, by an office authorized in that behalf for that purpose
by the International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property
Organization.
(3) The effect of the declaration referred to in subsection
(1) shall be the same as provided for in the Convention
referred to therein.
(4) Where any of the requirements of this section or
any regulation made thereunder have not been complied
with, the declaration referred to in subsection (1) shall be
deemed to be null and void.
77. (1) The Director-General shall record as the filing
Filing date.
date, the date of receipt of the application :
Provided that on the date of the receipt of the application
, contains –
(a) the name and address of the applicant ;
58 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(b) the name and address of the inventor and, where the
applicant is not his inventor, the statement referred
to in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 71 ;
(c) a description of the patent;
(d) a claim or claims :
Provided further that at the time of receipt of the
application the prescribed fee has been paid.
(2) Where the Director-General finds, at the time of
receipt of the application, that the provisions of subsection
(1) have not been complied with, he shall request the
applicant to file the required correction within a period of
three months from the date of such request.
(3) Where the applicant complies with the request
referred to in subsection (2), the Director-General shall record
as the filing date, the date of receipt of the required correction
; where the applicant fails to so comply the Director–General
shall treat the application as null and void.
(4) Where the application refers to drawings which in
fact are not included in the application, the Director-General
shall request the applicant to furnish the missing drawings.
(5) Where the applicant complies with the request
referred to in subsection (4), the Director-General shall record
as the filing date the date of receipt of the missing drawings;
where the applicant fails to so comply the Director-General
shall record as the filing date, the date of receipt of the
application and shall make no reference to the said drawings.
(6) The title, description, drawings, abstracts and claims
filed with any international application made under
subsection (8) of section 71, designating Sri Lanka shall be
deemed to be carried out in accodance with specifications
required under this Act.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 59
(7) The filing date of such application made under
subsection (8) of section 71 and processed by the office shall
be deemed to be the date of filling of such application under
the Patent Corporation Treaty.
78. (1) The Director-General shall examine the
Examination of
application and shall satisfy himself as to the fulfilment of applications &c.
the following:—
(a) where applicable, the requirements of paragraph (b)
of subsection (1) of section 71 ;
(b) the requirements of paragraph (a) of subsection (2)
of section 71 ;
(c) where applicable, the requirements of paragraph (b)
of subsection (2) of section 71 ;
(d) the description, the claims and where applicable,
the drawings, which comply with the prescribed
requirements ;
(e) the essential elements of the invention claimed in
the application have not been unlawfully derived
from a patent already granted in Sri Lanka ;
(f) the application contains an abstract ;
(g) the search report referred to in section 73 has been
submitted.
(2) Where the Director-General finds that the conditions
referred to in subsection (1) are not fulfiled he shall request
the applicant to file the required correction within a period
of three months from the date of such request ; where the
applicant fails to so comply the application shall, subject to
the provisions of subsection (3), be rejected.
(3) Where no correction is provided in response to a
request under subsection (2), the Director-General shall, on
payment of the prescribed fee within the prescribed period,
include the corrections into the application and if the
prescribed fee is not paid within the prescribed period the
application shall be rejected.
60 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(4) Where the Director-General finds that the essential
elements of an invention claimed in an application are
unlawfully derived from a patent already granted in Sri
Lanka, such application shall be rejected.
(5) The Director-General shall notify the applicant of
any decision under subsections (2), (3) and (4) and any
decision taken to reject the application shall be in writing
stating the reasons for such rejection.
Grant of patent. 79. (1) The grant of a patent shall not be refused and a
patent shall not be invalidated on the ground that the
commercial exploitation of the claimed invention is prohibited
by any law except where the prevention of the commercial
exploitation of the claimed invention is necessary in order to
protect public order, and morality including the protection of
human, animal or plant life or health or for the avoidance of
serious prejudice to the environment.
(2) Where the applicant fulfils the requirements of
subsection (1) of section 78 to the satisfaction of the Director-
General, he shall grant the patent, and shall forthwith —
(a) record the particulars relating to patent in the
Registerof patents required to be maintained in
accordance with the provisions of section 80 ;
(b) issue a certificate to the applicant in respect of the
grant of a patent together with a copy of the patent
documents including the search report :
Provided however where the applicant has not tendered
an international search report, but has requested the Director–
General to refer the application to a local examiner under
the proviso to section 73, the Director-General shall publish
a notice informing the public, of the possibility of granting
a patent to the applicant at the expiration of a period of three
months from the date of publication of the notice, unless
otherwise directed by the Court.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 61
(3) The Director-General shall thereafter as soon as
practicable cause to be published in the Gazette a notice
pertaining to the grant of the patent.
(4) The patent shall be deemed to be granted on the date
that the Director-General acts in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (a) of subsection (2).
(5) The notice referred to in the proviso to subsection(2)
shall contain the name and address of the applicant and where
the applicant is resident outside Sri Lanka a postal address
for service in Sri Lanka, a description of the invention and
any other information as may be prescribed.
(6) The applicant shall make the payment of the
prescribed fee for the publication referred to in the proviso
to subsection (2) upon the request of the Director-General,
and where the applicant fails to satisfy such request within
one month from the date of such request the Director-General
shall refuse to grant such patent.
80. The Director-General shall keep and maintain a Register of
register (hereinafter called and referred to as the “Register Patents.
of Patents”) wherein all patents shall be recorded, in the
order of their grant, specifying the number of the patent,
the name and address of the grantee and, if the grantee is
resident outside Sri Lanka, a postal address for service in
Sri Lanka, the date of application and grant, any change in
the ownership of a patent application or patent, the
amendment or division of a patent application, the
assignment or transmission of a patent application or patent,
any valid claim to priority, the surrender or revocation of a
patent and such other matters relating to patents as are
authorised or directed by this Part to be so recorded or
may from time to time be prescribed.
81. Any person may examine the register and may obtain Examination of
certified extracts therefrom on payment of the prescribed fee. register and
certified copies.
62 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Inspection of 82. (1) Any person may, after the grant of a patent,
files. inspect, subject to subsections (2) and (3), the file relating
to any patent and may obtain certified extracts therefrom on
payment of the prescribed fee.
(2) The file relating to a patent application may be
inspected before the grant of the patent only with the written
permission of the applicant :
Provided that before the grant of the patent the Director-
General may divulge the following information to any
person—
(a) the name, address and description of the applicant
and the name and address of the agent, if any ;
(b) the number of the application ;
(c) the filing date of the application and, if priority is
claimed, the priority date, the number of the earlier
application and the name of the State in which the
earlier application was filed or, when the earlier
application is a regional or an international
application, the name of the State or States for which
and the office with which, it was filed ;
(d) the title of the invention ;
(e) any change in the ownership of the application and
any reference to a licence contract appearing in the
file relating to the application.
(3) Where the provisions of the proviso to subsection
(2) of section 79 are applicable, the reference to the grant of
a patent in subsections (1) and (2) of this section shall be
deemed to be a reference to the publication of the notice
referred to in the said proviso.
(4) No person employed in or at the Office may make a
patent application or be granted a patent or acquire or hold
in any manner whatsoever any right relating to a patent during
the period of his employment in or at the office and for one
year after the termination of such employment.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 63
CHAPTER XIV
DURATIONOF PATENT
83. (1) Subject and without prejudice to the other Duration of patent.
provisions of this Part a patent shall expire twenty years
after the filing date of application for its registration.
(2) Where a patentee intends at the expiration of the
second year from the date of grant of the patent to keep the
same in force he shall, twelve months prior to the date of
expiration of the second and each succeeding year during
the term of the patent, pay the prescribed annual fee:
Provided, however, that a period of grace of six months
shall be allowed after the date of such expiration, upon
payment of such surcharge as may be prescribed :
Provided further that the patentee may pay in advance
the whole or any portion of the aggregate of the prescribed
annual fees.
CHAPTER XV
RIGHTSOF OWNEROF PATENT
84. (1) Subject and without prejudice to the other Rights of owner of
provisions of this Part, the owner of a patent shall have the patent.
following exclusive rights in relation to a patented
invention:—
(a) to exploit the patented invention ;
(b) to assign or transmit the patent ;
(c) to conclude licence contracts.
(2) No person shall do any of the acts referred to in
subsection (1) without the consent of the owner of the patent.
64 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(3) For the purposes of the this Part “exploitation” of a
patented invention means any of the following acts in relation
to a patent :—
(a) when the patent has been granted in respect of a
product—
(i) making, importing, offering for sale, selling,
exporting or using the product ;
(ii) stocking such product for the purpose of
offering for sale, selling, exporting or using ;
(b) when the patent has been granted in respect of a
process—
(i) using of the process ;
(ii) doing any of the acts referred to in paragraph
(a), in respect of a product obtained directly
by means of the process ;
(iii) preventing any person using that process or
using, selling or importing any product
obtained directly by means of that process
unless such person is authorized to do so.
Burden of proof 85. (1) Where the subject mater of a patent is a process
to be on the for obtaining a product, the burden of proof in a civil action
alleged infringer.
of establishing that an alleged infringing product was not
obtained by that patented process shall be on the alleged
infringer—
(a) if the product obtained by the patented process is
new ; or
(b) if a substantial likelihood exists that the product
was made by the patented process and the patent
owner has been unable through reasonable efforts
to determine the process actually used.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 65
(2) In the gathering and evaluation of evidence, the
legitimate interests of the alleged infringer in protecting his
undisclosed information shall be taken into account.
86. (1) The provisions of section 84 shall— Limitation of
owner’s rights.
(i) extend only to acts done for industrial or
commercial purposes and in particular shall not
extend to acts done only for the purpose of scientific
research;
(ii) not preclude a person having the rights referred to
in section 87 or a licensee, from exploiting the
patented invention ;
(iii) not extend to the presence or use of products on
foreign vessels, aircraft, spacecraft, or land vehicles
which temporarily or accidentally enter the waters,
airspace or territory of Sri Lanka ;
(iv) not extend to acts in respect of articles which have
been put in the market by the owner of the patent
or by a manufacturer under licence.
(2) (a) Any person, body of persons, a government
department or a statutory body may make an application to
the Director General for the purpose of obtaining a licence
to exploit a patent in the manner hereafter provided.
(b) Upon the receipt of such application, the Director
General may issue a licnece for exploition if he is satisfied
that the applicant has made efforts to obtain approval from
the right holder on reasonable commercial terms and
conditions and that such efforts have not been successful
within a reasonable period of time.
(c) Director-General may waive the requirements set
out in paragraph (b) where he has statisfied himself of the
existence of a national emergency or any other circumstances
of extreme urgency or in case of public non-commercial use
66 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
for the purposes such as national security, nutrition, health
or for the development of others vital section of the national
economy.
(d) The exploitation of the patent shall be limited in
scope and duration to the purpose as is specified in the
licence. Such exploitation shall be predominantly for the
purpose of supply to the domestic market.
(e) The Director-General shall consider each
application on its individual merits before granting a licence
to exploit a patent.
(f) The issuance of a licence shall be non-exclusive and
subject to the payment of adequate remuneration to the owner
of the patent taking into consideration the economic value
as determined by the Director-General, and where applicable,
the need to correct anti-competitive practices.
(g) Where such application is for the exploitation of
the patent (the second patent) which cannot be exploited
without infringing another patent (the first patent), the
following conditions shall apply :
(i) the invention claimed in the second patent shall
involve and important technical advance of
considerable economic significance in relation to
the invention claimed in the first patent;
(ii) the owner of the first patent shall be entitled to a
cross licence on reasonable terms to exploit the
invention claimed in the second patent; and
(iii) the exploitation authorized in respect of the first
patent shall be non-assignable except with the
assignment of the second patent.
(h) The decision of the Director-General, shall be
notified in writing to the owner of the patent as soon as
practicable.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 67
(i) The Director-General, shall upon, the request of the
owner or of the beneficiary of the licence, after hearing the
parties, vary his decision by amending the terms subject to
which licence for the exploitation of the patent is issued to
the extent only that the changed circumstances justify such
variation.
(j) The Director-General shall upon the request of the
owner, terminate the non-voluntary license if he is satisfied
that the circumstances which led to his decision have ceased
to exist and are unlikely to recur or that the license has failed
to comply with terms of such licence.
(k) Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph,
(j) the Director-General shall not terminate a licence, if he
is satisfied that adequate protection of the legitimate interest
of the beneficiary of the licence justifies the continuity of
such licence.
(l) The licence to exploit a patent may be transferred
only with the enterprise or the business of the licencee of
such patent or with the part of such enterprise or business,
in relation to which the licence to exploit has been granted.
(m) Where a judicial or administrative body has
determined that the manner of exploitation of a patent by its
owner or its licensee is anti-competitive, and the Director-
General is satisfied that the exploitation of a patent in
accordance with this section would remedy such practice,
the Director-General may authorize any person, body of
persons, government departments or statutory body to exploit
the patent without a licence of the owner of the patent. The
provisions of the above paragraphs except those of paragraphs
(b), (c) and (g) shall be applicable to such licence.
(3) Any person aggrieved by any decision of the
Director-General under subsection (2), may tender an appeal
therefrom. The provisions of section 173 shal1, mutatis
mutandis, apply in respect of such appeal.
68 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Rights derived 87. (1) Where a person at the filing date or, where
from prior applicable, the priority date, of the patent application—
manufacture or
use.
(a) was in good faith making the product or using the
process in Sri Lanka which is the subject of the
invention claimed in such application ;
(b) had in good faith made serious preparations in Sri
Lanka towards the making of the product or using
the process referred to in paragraph (a),
he shall have the right, despite the grant of the patent, to
exploit the patented invention :
Provided that the product in question is made, or the
process in question is used by the said person in Sri Lanka :
Provided further, if the invention was disclosed under
circumstances referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection
(3) of section 64, he may prove, that his knowledge of the
invention was not as a result of such disclosure.
(2) The right referred to in subsection (1) shall not be
assigned or transmitted except as part of the business of the
person concerned.
(3) The provisions of this section shall not affect the
rights of any person to object to the grant of a patent on the
ground that such invention is not patendable under sections
63, 64, 65 and 66 of the Act, or to seek relief under sections
68 and 99 of the Act.
CHAPTER XVI
ASSIGNMENTAND TRANSMISSIONOF PATENT APPLICATIONSAND
PATENTS
Assignment and 88. (1) A patent application or patent may be assigned
transmission of or transmitted and such assignment or transmission shall be
patent applications
in writing signed by or on behalf of the contracting parties.
and patents.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 69
(2) Any person becoming entitled by assignment or
transmission to a patent application or patent may apply to
the Director-General in the prescribed manner to have such
assignment or transmission recorded in the register.
(3) No such assignment or transmission shall be
recorded in the register unless the prescribed fee has been
paid to the Director-General.
(4) No such assignment or transmission shall have effect
against third parties unless so recorded in the register.
89. In the absence of any agreement to the contrary Joint ownership of
between the parties, joint owners of a patent application or patent applications
or patents.
patent may, separately, assign or transmit their rights in the
patent application or patent, exploit the patented invention
and take action against any person exploiting the patented
invention without their consent, but may only jointly
withdraw the patent application, surrender the patent or
conclude a licence contract.
C H A P T E R X V I I
LICENCE CONTRACTS
90. For the purposes of this Part licence contract means Interpretation.
any contract by which the owner of a patent (hereinafter
referred to as “the licensor”) grants to another person or
enterprise (hereinafter referred to as the “the licensee”) a
licence to do all or any of the acts referred to in paragraph
(a) of subsection (1) and subsection (3) of section 84.
91. (1) A licence contract shall be in writing signed by Form and record
or on behalf of the contracting parties. of licence
contract.
(2) Upon a request in writing signed by or on behalf of
the contracting parties, the Director-General shall, on
payment of the prescribed fee, record in the register such
particulars relating to the contract as the parties thereto might
wish to have so recorded :
Provided that the parties shall not be required to disclose
or have recorded any other particulars relating to the said
contract.
70 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Rights of licensee. 92. In the absence of any provision to the contrary in
the licence contract, the licensee shall—
(a) be entitled to do all or any of the acts referred to in
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) and subsection (3)
of section 84 within the territory of Sri Lanka,
without limitation as to time and through application
of the patented invention ;
(b) not be entitled to assign or transmit his rights under
the licence contract or grant sub-licences to third
parties.
Rights of the 93. (1) In the absence of any provision to the contrary
licensor. in the licence contract, the licensor may grant further licences
to third parties in respect of the same patent or perform all
or any of the acts referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection
(1) and subsection (3) of section 84.
(2) Where the licence contract provides the licence to
be exclusive, and unless it is expressly provided otherwise
in such contract, the licensor shall not grant further licences
to third parties in respect of the same patent or perform all
or any of the acts referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection
(1) and subsection (3) of section 84.
Invalid clauses 94. Any term or condition in a licence contract shall be
in licence null and void in so far as it imposes upon the licensee, in the
contracts.
industrial or commercial field, restrictions not derived from
the rights conferred by this Part on the owner of the patent,
or unnecessary for the safeguarding of such rights :
Provided that—
(a) restrictions concerning the scope, extent or duration
of exploitation of the patented invention, or the
geographical area in or the quality or quantity of
the products in connection with, which the patented
invention may be exploited ; and
