parliament of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka ————————— intellectual property act, no. 36 of 2003 ————————— [certified on 12th november, 2003] printed on the order of government ————————— published as a supplement to part ii of the gazette of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka of november 14, 2003 printedatthedepartmentofgovernmentprinting,srilanka tobepurchasedatthegovernmentpublicationsbureau,colombo 1 price : rs. 80.00 postage : rs. 27.00 intellectual property act, no. 36 of 2003 1 [certified on 12th november, 2003] l.d.—o. 54/2002. an act to provide for the law relating to intellectual propertyandforanefficientprocedurefortheregistration, controlandadministrationthereof;to amendthe customs ordinance (chapter 235) andthehighcourtofthe provinces (special) provisions act, no. 10 of 1996 ; andtoprovidefor mattersconnectedtherewithorincidentalthereto be it enacted by the parliament of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka as follows:— 1. this act may be cited as the intellectual property short title. act, no. 36 of 2003. part i administration 2. (1) there shall be a person to be or to act as the appointment and director-general of intellectual property of sri lanka powers of the (hereinafter referred to as the “director-general”). director-general. (2) the director-general shall— (a) be vested with the power of implementation of the provisions of this act, the control and superintendence of the registration and administration of industrial designs, patents, marks and of any other matter as provided by the act, and the supervision and control of all persons appointed for, or engaged in, the implementation of the provisions of this act ; and (b) take all necessary steps to promote and encourage national awareness of the subject of intellectual property including copyright and related rights by organisation of exhibitions, contests, seminars and publications and by promoting and encouraging the establishment and proper functioning of organisations or societies to protect and administer copyright and related rights under part ii of the act. 2—h 18510—10,650 (2003/05) 2 intellectual property act, no. 36 of 2003 (3) the director-general shall comply with the general policy of the government with respect to subject of intellectual property and with any general or special directions issued by the minister in relation to such policy. director and 3. (1) there may from time to time be appointed a fit deputy directors. and proper person or persons, to be or to act as director of intellectual property and such other deputy directors for the proper implementation and administration of the provisions of this act. (2) any person so appointed may exercise, perform and discharge any power, duty or function expressly conferred or imposed upon the director or the deputy directors, as the case may be, and may, subject to the directions of the minister and under the authority and control of the director-general, exercise, perform and discharge any powder, duty or function conferred or imposed upon the director-general by or under this act. (3) there shall be appointed such other officers and servants as may be necessary for the administration of the act. office and 4. (1) there shall be an office called the national maintenance of intellectual property office of sri lanka (hereinafter referred registers. to as the “office”). such office shall be the sole office in sri lanka for the registration and administration of industrial designs, patents, marks and any other matter as provided by the act. (2) all registers required to be kept and maintained under the provisions of this act shall be kept and maintained under the supervision of the director-general at the office and such registers shall be the only legally recognized registers in sri lanka for the registration of industrial designs, patents, marks and any other matter as provided by the act.