88 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Noncompletion 112. Where, by reason of default on the part of the
of registration.
applicant, the registration of a mark is not completed within
twelve months from the date of receipt by the Director-
General of the application, the Director-General shall, after
giving notice of non-completion to the applicant in writing
in the prescribed form, treat the application as abandoned,
unless it is completed within the time specified in that behalf
in such notice.
Register of marks 113. (1) The Director-General shall keep and maintain
and issue of a register called the “Register of Marks” wherein shall be
certificate.
recorded in the order of their registration, all registered marks
and such other matters relating to marks as are authorized
or directed by this Part to be so recorded or may from time
to time be prescribed.
(2) The registration of a mark shall include a
representation of the mark and shall specify its number, the
name and address of the registered owner and, if the
registered owner’s address is outside Sri Lanka, a postal
address for service in Sri Lanka, the dates of application
and registration ; if priority is validly claimed, an indication
of that fact and the number, date and country of the
application on the basis of which the priority is claimed, if
a valid certificate has been filed relating to the use of a mark
at an international exhibition, the contents of such certificate,
the list of goods and services in respect of which registration
of the mark has been granted with an indication of the
corresponding class or classes.
(3) Upon the registration of a mark the Director-General
shall issue to the registered owner thereof a certificate of
registration and shall, at the request of the registered owner,
send such certificate to him by registered post to his last
recorded postal address in Sri Lanka, or if he is resident
outside Sri Lanka to his last recorded postal address in Sri
Lanka.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 89
114. The Director-General shall cause to be published Publication of
in the Gazette, in the prescribed form, all registered marks registered marks.
in the order of their registration, including in respect of each
mark so published reference to such particulars as may be
prescribed.
115. Any person may examine the register and may Examination of
obtain certified extracts therefrom on payment of the register and
certified copies.
prescribed fee.
116. Where application is made for the registration of Associated marks.
a mark identical with or so closely resembling a mark of the
applicant already on the register for the same goods or
services, the same description of goods or services as to be
likely to mislead or cause confusion if used by a person
other than the applicant, the Director-General may require
as a condition of registration that such marks shall be entered
on the register as associated marks.
117. Associated marks shall be assignable or Assignment and
transmissible only as a whole and not separately, but they user of associated
marks.
shall for all other purposes be deemed to have been registered
as separate marks:
Provided that where under the provisions of this Part user
of a registered mark is required to be proved for any purpose,
the Director-General may, in so far as is considered necessary
accept the user of an associated registered mark, or of the
mark, with additions or alterations not substantially affecting
its identity, as an equivalent for such user.
CHAPTER XXII
DURATIONOF REGISTRATIONOFA MARK
118. (1) Subject and without prejudice to the other Duration of
provisions of this Part, registration of a mark shall expire registration.
ten years after the date of registration of such mark.
90 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(2) A mark when registered shall be registered with
reference to the date of receipt of the application for
registration by the Director-General, and such date shall be
deemed for the purposes of this Part to be the date of
registration.
Renewal. 119. (1) Registration of a mark may be renewed for
consecutive periods of ten years each on payment of the
prescribed fee.
(2) Renewal of registration of a mark shall not be subject
to any further examination of the mark by the Director-
General or to opposition by any person.
(3) The renewal fee shall be paid within the twelve
months preceding the date of expiration of the period of
registration :
Provided, however, that a period of grace of six months
shall be allowed for the payment of the fee after the date of
such expiration, upon payment of such surcharge as may be
prescribed.
(4) The Director-General shall record in the register and
cause to be published in the Gazette in the prescribed form
all renewals of registration specifying any removal from the
lists of goods or services.
(5) Where the renewal fee has not been paid within such
period or such extended period specified in subsection (3),
the Director-General shall remove the mark from the register.
Alteration of 120. The registered owner of any mark may apply in
registered mark. the prescribed manner and with prescribed fee to the
Director-General for leave to add to or alter such mark in
any manner not substantially affecting the identity of the
same, and the Director-General may refuse such leave or
may grant the same on such terms and subject to such
limitations as to mode or place of use as he may think fit. If
leave be granted, the mark as altered shall be published in
the prescribed manner.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 91
CHAPTER XXIII
RIGHTS OF THE REGISTERED OWNER OF A MARK
121. (1) Subject and without prejudice to the other Rights of
provisions of this Part, the registered owner of a mark shall registered owner.
have the following exclusive rights in relation to the mark:—
(a) to use the mark ;
(b) to assign or transmit the registration of the mark ;
(c) to conclude licence contracts.
(2) Without the consent of the registered owner of the mark
third parties are precluded from the following acts :—
(a) any use of the mark, or a sign resembling it in such a
way as to be likely to mislead the public, for goods or
services in respect of which the mark is registered or
for similar goods or services in connection with which
the use of the mark or sign is likely to mislead the
public ; and
(b) any other use of the mark, or of a sign or trade name
resembling it, without just cause and in conditions
likely to be prejudicial to the interests of the registered
owner of the mark.
(3) The application (whether by way of printing, painting
or otherwise) or the affixing in Sri Lanka by a third party, of
a mark or any sign resembling such mark in such a way as to
be likely to mislead the public, on or in connection with, goods
in respect of which such mark has been registered (whether
such goods are intended for sale in Sri Lanka, or for export
from Sri Lanka) shall be deemed to be an act prohibited under
Subsection (2).
(4) The court shall presume the likelihood of misleading
the public in instances where a person uses a mark identical
to the registered mark for identical goods or services in respect
of which the mark is registered.
92 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Limitation of 122. The registration of the mark shall not confer on its
registered registered owner the right to preclude third parties –
owners’s rights.
(a) from using their bona fide names, addresses,
pseudonyms, a geographical name, or exact
indications concerning the kind, quality, quantity,
destination, value, place of origin or time of production
or of supply of their goods and services, in so far as
such use is confined to the purposes of mere
identification or information and cannot mislead the
public as to the source of the goods or services ;
(b) from using the mark in relation to goods lawfully
manufactured, imported, offered for sale, sold, used
or stocked in Sri Lanka under that mark, provided
that such goods have not undergone any change.
CHAPTER XXIV
ASSIGNMENTAND TRANSMISSIONOF APPLICATIONSAND
REGISTRATIONSOF MARKS
Assignment and 123. (1) An application for registration or the registration
transmission of of a mark may be assigned or transmitted independently of
applications and the transfer of all or part of the enterprise using the mark, in
registrations.
respect of all or part of the goods or services for which the
application was filed or the mark registered and such
assignment or transmission shall be in writing signed by or
on behalf of the contracting parties.
(2) Such assignment or transmission shall be invalid if
the purpose or effect thereof is to mislead the public, in
particular in respect of the nature, source, manufacturing
process, characteristics or suitability for their purpose of the
goods or services to which the mark is applied.
(3) Any person becoming entitled by assignment or
transmission to an application for registration or the
registration of a mark may apply to the Director-General in
the prescribed manner to have such assignment or
transmission recorded in the register.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 93
(4) No such assignment or transmission shall be recorded
in the register unless the prescribed fee has been paid to the
Director-General.
(5) No such assignment or transmission shall have effect
against third parties unless so recorded in the register.
CHAPTER XXV
LICENCE CONTRACTS
124. (1) For the purposes of this Part licence contract Interpretation.
means any contract by which the registered owner of a mark
(hereinafter referred to as “the licensor”) grants to another
person or enterprise (hereinafter referred to as “the licensee”)
a licence to use the mark for all or part of the goods or services
in respect of which the mark is registered.
(2) Use of the mark by the licensee shall be deemed to be
use of the mark by the registered owner.
125. (1) A licence contract shall be in writing signed Form and record
by or on behalf of the contracting parties. of licence
contract.
(2) Upon a request in writing signed by or on behalf of
the contracting parties, the Director-General shall, on payment
of the prescribed fee, record in the register such particulars
relating to the contract as the parties thereto might wish to
have recorded :
Provided that the parties shall not be required to
disclose or have recorded any other particulars relating to
such contract.
126. In the absence of any provision to the contrary in Rights of
the licence contract, the licensee shall – licensee.
(a) be entitled to use the mark within the territory of
Sri Lanka, during the entire period of registration of
the mark, including renewals, in respect of all the
goods or services for which the mark is registered ;
94 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(b) not be entitled to assign or transmit his rights under
the licence contract or grant sub-licences to third
parties.
Rights of liensor. 127. (1) In the absence of any provision to the contrary
in the licence contract, the licensor may grant further licences
to third parties in respect of the same mark or himself use the
mark.
(2) Where the licence contract provides the licence to be
exclusive, the licensor shall not grant further licences to third
parties in respect of the same mark or himself use the mark
unless the contract otherwise provides.
Nullity of licence 128. (1) A licence contract shall be null and void in the
contract and absence of stipulations ensuring effective control by the
certain clauses. licensor of the quality of the goods or services in respect of
which the mark may be used.
(2) Any clause or condition in a licence contract shall be
null and void in so far as it imposes upon the licensee
restrictions not derived from the rights conferred by this Part
on the registered owner of the mark, or which are unnecessary
for the safeguarding of such rights :
Provided that –
(a) restrictions concerning the scope, extent, duration of
use of the mark or the geographical area in or the
quality or quantity of the goods or services in
connection with which the mark may be used ;
(b) restrictions justified by the stipulations referred to in
subsection (1) ; and
(c) obligations imposed upon the licensee to abstain from
all acts capable of prejudicing the validity of the
registration of the mark,
shall not be deemed to constitute a restrictions as mentioned
above.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 95
129. The Court may on the application of any person Cancellation of
showing a legitimate interest, or of any Authority including licence contracts.
the Director-General, to which the registered owner of
the mark and every assignee, licensee or sub-licensee on
record shall be made party, annul and cancel the said contract
if—
(a) the licensor has lost effective control over the quality
of the goods or services in respect of which the mark
is used ;
(b) the licensee has used the mark in such a way as to
mislead or confuse the public.
130. (1) Where the Director-General has reasonable Licence contracts
cause to believe that any licence contract or any amendment involving
or renewal thereof – payments abroad.
(a) which involves the payment of royalties abroad ; or
(b) which by reason of other circumstances relating to
such licence contract,
is detrimental to the economic development of Sri Lanka he
shall in writing communicate such fact to the Governor of
the Central Bank and transmit all papers in his custody relevant
to a decision on such matter, to the Governor of the Central
Bank.
(2) Where the Governor of the Central Bank on receipt of
any communication under subsection (1) informs the
Director-General in writing that the said licence contract or
any amendment or renewal thereof is detrimental to the
economic development of Sri Lanka the Director-General
shall cancel and invalidate the record of such contract in the
register.
(3) The provisions of this section shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to assignments and transmissions.
(4) The provisions of this Chapter shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to sub-licences.
96 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Effect of nullity 131. Where, before the expiration of the licence contract,
of registration on the registration is declared null and void, the licensee shall
licence contract.
no longer be required to make any payment to the licensor
under the licence contract, and shall be entitled to repayment
of the payments already made :
Provided that the licensor shall not be required to make
any repayment, or shall be required to make repayment only
in part, to the extent that he can prove that any such repayment
would be inequitable under all the circumstances, in particular
if the licensee has effectively profited from the licence.
Expiry, 132. The Director-General shall –
termination or
invalidation of (a) if he is satisfied that a licence contract recorded under
licence contract. subsection (2) of section 125 has expired or been
terminated, record that fact in the register upon a
request made in writing to that effect signed by or on
behalf of the parties thereto ;
(b) record in the register the expiry, termination,
annulment or invalidation of a licence contract under
any provision of this Part.
CHAPTER XXVI
RENUNCIATIONAND NULLITYOF REGISTRATIONOFA MARK
Renunciation of 133. (1) The registered owner of a mark may renounce
registration. the registration, either wholly or in respect of part of the goods
or services for which the mark is registered, by a declaration
in writing signed by him or on his behalf and forwarded to
the Director-General.
(2) The Director-General shall, on receipt of the said
declaration, record it in the register and cause such record to
be published in the Gazette.
(3) The renunciation shall take effect from the date that
the Director-General receives the said declaration.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 97
(4) Where a licence contract in respect of a mark is recorded
in the register the Director-General shall not, in the absence of
provision to the contrary in such licence contract, accept or
record the said renunciation except upon receipt of a signed
declaration by which any assignee, licensee or sub-licensee on
record consents to the renunciation, unless his consent is
expressly waived in the licence contract.
134. (1) The Court may on the application of any person Nullity of
showing a legitimate interest, or of any competent Authority registration.
including the Director-General , to which the registered owner
of the mark and every assignee, licensee or sub-licensee on
record shall be made party, declare the registration of the mark
null and void if its registration is precluded under the
provisions of sections 103 and 104 :
Provided, however, that grounds of nullity which do not
exist on the date of the application to Court, shall not be taken
into account.
(2) Where the grounds for nullity of registration of the
mark exist in respect of only part of the goods or services for
which the mark is registered, nullity of the registration shall
be declared for that part only for such goods or services.
(3) An application for a declaration of nullity based on
any of the grounds specified in subsection (1) of section 104
shall be made within five years from the date of issue of the
certificate of registration under subsection (3) of section 113.
135. (1) Upon a final decision of the Court declaring total Date and effect of
or partial nullity of registration of a mark, the registration shall nullity.
be deemed to have been null and void totally or partially, as the
case may be, from the date of such registration.
(2) When a declaration of nullity becomes final the
Registrar of the Court shall notify the Director-General of
such fact and he shall record the said declaration in the register
and cause it to be published in the Gazette.
98 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
CHAPTER XXVII
REMOVALOF MARK
Removal of mark. 136. (1) The Court may on the application of any person
showing a legitimate interest, or of any Competent Authority
including the Director-General, to which the registered owner
of the mark and every assignee, licensee or sub-licencee on
record shall be made party, remove any registered mark from
the register—
(a) if the registered owner has, without valid grounds,
failed to use the mark within Sri Lanka or cause it to
be used within Sri Lanka by virtue of a licence, during
five consecutive years immediately preceding the date
of the application to Court ;
(b) if the registered owner has caused, provoked or
tolerated the transformation of the mark into a generic
name for one or more of the goods or services in
respect of which the mark is registered so that in trade
circles and in the eyes of the public its significance as
a mark has been lost.
(2) In any application under paragraph (a) of subsection
(1) the Court may take into account the fact that non-use of
the mark was due to circumstances beyond the control of the
registered owner. The Court shall not take into account the
lack of funds of the registered owner as a ground for non-use
of the mark.
(3) The use of a mark—
(a) in a form differing, in elements which do not alter the
distinctive character of the mark, from the form in
which it was registered, shall not be a ground for
removal of the mark ;
(b) in connection with one or more of the goods or
services belonging to any given class in respect of
which the mark is registered, shall suffice to prevent
the removal of the mark in respect of all the other
goods or services of the same class.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 99
137. Upon a final decision of the Court in respect of Date and effect of
removing any registered mark from the register— removal of mark.
(1) the Court may, taking into account the date of the
events and other circumstances which occasioned the
removal of the mark, determine the date on which the
registration of the mark shall be deemed to have ceased
to have any legal effect ;
(2) the Registrar of the Court shall communicate the
decision of the Court to the Director-General who shall,
if the Court decides that the mark be removed, enter in
the register a record of such removal and cause the
decision of Court to be published in the Gazette.
CHAPTER XXVIII
COLLECTIVE MARKS
138. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Chapter the Collective marks.
provisions relating to marks shall apply to collective marks.
(2) In relation to a collective mark, the reference in section
101 (signs of which a trade mark or service mark may consist)
to distinguish goods or services of one enterprise from those
of other enterprises shall be construed as a reference to
distinguish goods or services of the enterprise which uses the
collective mark from those of other enterprises.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 103 a
collective mark may be registered which consists of a sign or
indication which may serve, in trade, to indicate the
geographical origin of the goods or services :
Provided, however, the owner of such a mark shall not be
entitled to prohibit the use of such sign or indication in
accordance with honest practices in industrial or commercial
matters and in particular, by a person who is entitled to use a
geographical name.
100 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Application for 139. (1) An application for registration of a collective
registration of
mark shall not be entertained unless in such application the
collective marks.
mark is designated as a collective mark and the application is
accompanied by a copy of conditions governing the use of
the mark duly certified by the applicant.
(2) The conditions governing the use of the mark under
subsection (1) shall define the common characteristics or
quality of the goods or services which the collective mark
shall designate, the conditions in which, and the person by
whom it may be used, the exercise of effective control of the
use of the mark and proper sanctions against the use of the
mark contrary to such conditions. They shall contain further
prescribed requirements under this section.
(3) A collective mark shall not be registered unless the
conditions governing the use of the mark—
(a) comply with the provisions of subsection (2) and
any requirement imposed by any regulation made
thereunder ;
(b) are not contrary to public policy or accepted
principles of morality.
(4) (a) An authorised user shall, subject to any agreement
to the contrary between him and registered owner of the
collective mark, be entitled to require the owner to take
infringement proceedings in respect of any matter which
affects his interests.
(b) If the owner—
(i) refuses to do so ; or
(ii) fails to do so within two months after being called
upon to do so,
the authorised user may bring the proceedings in his own
name as if he was the owner. The registered owner shall be
made party to the action.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 101
(c) In infringement proceedings brought by the owner of
a registered collective mark, any loss suffered or likely to be
suffered by any authorised user shall be taken into
consideration by Court.
(5) The registration of the collective mark may be removed
on the following grounds in addition to the grounds specified
in section 136 :—
(i) that the manner in which the mark has been used by
the owner has caused it to become liable to mislead
the public to understand or think that the mark has
state patronage ;
(ii) that the owner has failed to observe, or to secure the
observance of, the conditions governing use of the
mark ; or
(iii) that an amendment of the conditions has been made
so that the conditions—
(a) no longer comply with subsection (2) and any
other condition imposed by regulation made
under this Act ; or
(b) are contrary to public policy or to the accepted
principles of morality.
(6) The registration of a collective mark shall be declared
null and void in addition to the grounds of nullity specified in
section 134 if it was registered in violation of the provisions
of subsections (1), (2) and (3) of section 139.
140. (1) Registration of a collective mark shall be in such Registration and
Part of the register as the Director-General may decide and a publication of
copy of the conditions governing the use of the mark shall be collective
marks.
appended to the registration.
(2) The publication of an application for a collective mark
in accordance with subsection (9) of section 111 shall include
a summary of the conditions to be apended to the registration.
102 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(3) When a collective mark, is registered under subsection
(1) it shall be deemed in all respects to be a registered mark.
(4) The conditions governing the use of a registered
collective mark shall be open for public inspection in the same
way as the register.
Changes in 141. (1) The registered owner of a collective mark shall
condition notify the Director-General in the prescribed manner of any
governing the use
change or amendments effected in the conditions governing
of collective
the use of the collective mark.
marks.
(2) Any notification of such change or amendment shall
be recorded in the register on payment of the prescribed fee.
Any such change or amendment in the condition shall be
effectual only if they have been recorded.
(3) The Director-General shall cause a summary of such
changes and amendments made in the conditions and recorded
under subsection (2) to be published in the Gazette.
CHAPTER XXIX
CERTIFICATION MARKS
Certification 142. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Chapter,
marks. provisions relating to marks shall apply to certification marks.
(2) In relation to a certification mark the reference in
section 101 (signs of which a trade mark or service mark
may consist) to distinguish goods or services of one enterprise
from those of another enterprise shall be construed as a
reference to distinguish goods or services which are certified
from those which are not certified.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 103, a
certification mark which consists of a sign or indication which
may serve in trade to designate the geographical origin of the
goods and services may be registered :
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 103
Provided, however, the owner of such mark is not entitled
to prohibit the use of such sign or indication in accordance
with honest practices in industrial or commercial matters and
in particular by a person who is entitled to use a geographical
name.
(4) An application for registration of a certification mark
shall not be filed unless in the application the mark is
designated as a certification mark and is accompanied by a
copy of the conditions governing the use of the mark duly
certified by the applicant.
(5) The conditions shall indicate the name of the person
authorised to use the mark, the characteristics to be certified
by the mark, how the owner is to test those characteristics
and to supervise the use of the mark, the fees (if any) to be
paid in connection with the operation of the mark and the
procedures for resolving disputes. They may in addition
contain further prescribed requirements under this section.
(6) A certification mark shall not be registered—
(a) if the owner of the certification mark carries on a
business involving the supply of goods or services of
the kind certified ; and
(b) unless the conditions governing the use of the mark,—
(i) comply with the provisions of subsection (5) and
any other requirement imposed by regulations
made under that subsection ; and
(ii) are not contrary to public policy or accepted
principles of morality.
(7) In infringement proceedings brought by the owner of
the registered certification mark any loss suffered, or likely
to be suffered, by any authorised user shall be taken into
account ; and the Court may give such directions as it thinks
fit as to the extent to which the owner is to hold the proceeds
of any pecuniary remedy on behalf of such users.
104 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(8) Apart from the grounds of removal of a mark provided
for in section 136, the registration of a certification mark may
be removed on the ground—
(a) that the owner has commenced such a business as is
mentioned in paragraph (a) of subsection (6) ;
(b) that the manner in which the mark has been used by
the owner has caused it to become liable to mislead
the public as to the character of significance of the
mark ;
(c) that the owner has failed to observe, or to secure
observance of, the conditions governing the use of
the mark ;
(d) that the owner is no longer competent to certify the
goods or services for which the mark is registered ;
(e) that an amendment of the conditions have been made
so that the conditions—
(i) no longer comply with the provisions of
subsection (5) and any other condition imposed
by regulations ;
(ii) are contrary to public policy and order or to the
accepted principles of morality.
(9) Apart from the grounds of nullity provided in section
134 the registration of a certification mark may be declared
null and void if it was registered contrary to the provisions of
subsections (3), (4) and (5).
(10) (a) Registration of a certification mark shall be in
such part of the register as the Director-General may decide,
and a copy of the conditions, governing the use of the mark,
shall be appended to such registration.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 105
(b) The publication of an application of a certification
mark shall be in accordance with subsection (9) of section
111, which shall include a summary of the conditions to be
appended to the registration.
(c) A certification mark registered under subsection (4)
shall be deemed for all purposes be a registered mark.
(d) The conditions governing the use of a certification
mark shall be open for public inspection in the same manner
as the register.
(11) (a) The registered owner of a certification mark shall
notify the Director-General in prescribed manner of any
changes or amendments effected to the conditions governing
the use of the mark.
(b) Any notification of such changes and amendments
shall be recorded in the register on the payment of prescribed
fee. Any change or amendment of conditions shall come into
force only if they have been so recorded.
(c) The Director-General shall cause to be published in
the Gazette a summary of the changes or amendments so
recorded in the register.
PART VI
CHAPTER XXX
TRADE NAMES
143. A name or designation shall not be admissible as a Prohibited trade
trade name if, by reason of its nature or the uses to which it names.
may be put, it is contrary to morality or public order or is
likely to offend the religious or racial susceptibilities of any
community or is likely to mislead trade circles or the public
as to the nature of the enterprise identified by that name.
106 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Protection of 144. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any written
trade name. law providing for the registration of a trade name, such name
shall be protected, even prior to or without registration, against
any unlawful act committed by a third party.
(2) Any subsequent use of a trade name by a third party,
whether as a trade name or as a trade mark, service mark,
collective mark or certification mark or any such use of similar
trade name, trade mark, service mark or collective mark or
certification mark likely to mislead the public shall be
deemed to be unlawful.
(3) Section 122 of this Act shall apply to trade names.
Assignment and 145. (1) A trade name may be assigned or transmitted
transmission of together with the assignment or transmission of the enterprise
trade names.
or part of the enterprise identified by that name.
(2) The provisions of section 123 shall apply, mutatis
mutandis, to trade names.
PART VII
CHAPTER XXXI
LAYOUT DESIGNSOF INTEGRATED CIRCUITS
Right to 146. (1) The right to protection of a layout design shall
protection. belong to the creator of layout design. Where several persons
have jointly created a layout design such persons shall be co-
owners of the right to protection.
(2) The right to protection of a layout design made or
created in the performance of a contract of employment or in
the execution of a work shall, unless the terms of such contract
of employment or contract for the execution of such work
otherwise provides, belong to the employer or the person who
commissioned the work, as the case may be.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 107
147. (1) The protection provided under this Act shall Originality.
apply to any layout design which is original. For the purposes
of this section a layout design is original if —
(a) it has not been produced by the mere reproduction
of another layout design or of any substantial part
thereof; and
(b) it is the result of an intellectual effort of a creator and
is not common place among creators of layout designs
and manufacturers of integrated circuits at the time of
the creation of such layout design.
(2) Where a layout design consists of a combination of
elements and interconnections that are common place among
creators of layout designs or manufacturers of integrated
circuits, such layout designs shall be protected only if the
combination, taken as a whole, meets the conditions referred
to in subsection (1).
148. (1) The protection afforded to a layout design under Scope of
this Part shall not be dependent on the integrated circuit which protection.
incorporates such layout design being incorporated in an article.
Subject to the provisions of subsection (2) the right holder of a
layout design shall have the exclusive right to do or authorize
any person to do any of the following acts :—
(i) to reproduce whether by incorporation in an
integrated circuit or otherwise, the protected layout
design in its entirety or any part thereof, except the
act of reproducing any part that does not comply with
the requirement of originality referred to in
subsections (1) and (2) of section 147.
(ii) to import, offer for sale, sell or otherwise distribute
for commercial purposes, the protected layout design
or an integrated circuit in which the protected layout
design is incorporated or an article incorporating such
an integrated circuit in so far as it does not contain an
unlawfully reproduced layout design.
108 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(2) The scope of the protection of a layout design afforded
by this Part, shall not extend to—
(i) the reproduction of the protected layout design for
the purpose of evaluation, analysis, research or non
profit teaching or education ;
(ii) the incorporation in an integrated circuit of a layout
design, created on the basis of such analysis,
evaluation or research referred to in paragraph (i), if
such layout design is itself original within the
meaning of subsections (1) and (2) of section 147,
or for the performance of any of the acts referred to
in subsection (1) of this section in respect of such
layout design ;
(iii) the performance of any of the acts referred to in
paragraph (ii) of subsection (1), where the act is
performed in respect of a protected layout design, or
in respect of an integrated circuit in which such layout
design is incorporated, and such layout design or
integrated circuit has been put on the market by, or
with the consent of, the right holder; or
(iv) the performance of any act referred to in paragraph
(ii) of subsection (1) in respect of an integrated circuit
incorporating an unlawfully reproduced layout
design or any article incorporating such an integrated
circuit, where the person performing or ordering
such an act unknowingly performs or orders such
an act and has no reasonable grounds of knowing at
the time of acquiring the integrated circuit or the
article incorporating such an integrated circuit, that
it incorporated an unlawfully reproduced layout
design :
Provided however, where the person performing
or ordering any act under this paragraph, is notified
that such layout design is an unlawful reproduction,
then such person may, perform or order any act only
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 109
with respect to the stock in hand or ordered before
he was so notified and shall be liable to pay to the
right holder a sum equivalent to a reasonable royalty
such as would be payable under a freely negotiated
licence in respect of such layout design; or
(v) protection under this Part shall not be available for
any layout design which has been commercially
exploited in or outside Sri Lanka for more than two
years prior to the commencement of this Act.
149. (1) Protection of a layout design under this Act shall Commencement
commence— and duration of
protection.
(i) on the date of the first commercial exploitation in or
outside Sri Lanka of the layout design by, or with
the consent of the right holder, provided an
application for protection is filed by the right holder
with the Director-General within the time specified
in subsection (2) of section 150 ; or
(ii) on the filing date accorded to the application for the
registration of the layout design filed by the right
holder, if the layout design has not been previously
exploited commercially in or out side Sri Lanka.
(2) Protection of a layout design under this Part shall
terminate at the end of the tenth calendar year from the date
of commencement of such protection.
150. (1) The application for the registration of a layout Requirements of
design shall be in the prescribed form, and shall be the Application.
accompanied by the prescribed fee and shall be filed in the
Office. A separate application shall be filed in respect of each
different layout design.
(2) Any person may apply for registration of a layout
design if such layout design has not been commercially
exploited, or if exploited, in or outside Sri Lanka the
application for registration shall be made before the expiry
of a period of two years from the date of such exploitation.
110 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(3) The application shall—
(a) contain a request for the registration of the layout
design in the Register of Layout Designs and a brief
and precise description thereof ;
(b) specify the name, address, nationality of the applicant,
and if he is resident outside Sri Lanka a postal address
for service in Sri Lanka ;
(c) be accompanied by a copy of a drawing of the layout
design along with information defining the electronic
function which the integrated circuit is intended to
perform ; however, the application may omit such parts
in the copy or drawing that relate to the manner or
manufacture of the integrated circuit, provided that
the parts submitted are sufficient to allow the
identification of the layout design ;
(d) specify whether the layout design is exploited in or
outside Sri Lanka and the date of its first commercial
exploitation, if any ;
(e) provide particulars establishing the right to protection
under section 146 ;
(f) be accompanied by a declaration as to the originality
of the layout design ;
(g) be accompanied by a power of attorney granted to the
agent by the applicant, where the application is made
through an agent.
(4) (a) Where the applicant fails to comply with the
requirements specified in subsection (3) of this section the
Director-General shall, notify the applicant of the same and
require him to correct the defect made in the application within
a period of two months from the date of such notification.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 111
(b) Where the applicant complies with such requirements
specified in paragraph (a) of this subsection, the Director-
General shall accord the date of filing as the date of receipt of
the application :
Provided however, such application should contain written
statement of the need for the registration of the layout design,
and information whereby the identity of the applicant can be
established and shall be accompanied by a copy of the
drawings of the layout design.
(c) Where the applicant fails to submit drawings of a layout
design with the original application, but corrects the
application for the registration of the layout design within
the period specified in paragraph (a), the date of receipt of
the corrections shall be deemed to be the date of filing of the
application. The Director-General shall by a written
communication confirm the filing date of the application to
the applicant.
(d) Where the applicant fails, after notification by the
Director-General, to correct the application within the period
specified in paragraph (a), such application shall be deemed
not to have been filed.
151. (1) The Director-General shall maintain a Register Registration of
of Layout Designs and he shall register or cause to be layout design in
the Register.
registered of each protected layout design, in respect of which
applications for registration have been accepted.
(2) Where any application conforms to the requirements
of section 150, the Director-General shall register the layout
design in the Register of Layout Designs without examination
of the originality of the layout design, the applicant’s right to
protection or the correctness of the facts stated in the
application.
112 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(3) The Register of Layout Designs shall contain the
number, title, filing date and where indicated in the application
under section 150 the date of first commercial exploitation in
or outside Sri Lanka of the layout design as well as the name
and address of the right holder, details relating to assignment,
transfer, license contract and other prescribed particulars.
(4) Any person may refer the Register of Layout Designs
and obtain extracts therefrom, subject to the payment of the
prescribed fee.
(5) Every registration of a layout design shall be published
in the Gazette.
Right to transfer 152. (1) Where the essential elements of a layout design
and rectification has been taken from a layout design of another person without
of the Register. his consent in writing, the second mentioned person may, in
writing together with all relevant material necessary to
substantiate his claim and the prescribed fee, request the
Director-General to transfer the application to him. Where
the application has already been registered the second
mentioned person may, within one year from the date of
publication of such registration write to the Director-General
together with all relevant material necessary to substantiate
his claim and the prescribed fee, requesting the Director-
General to transfer the registration to him and to rectify the
entry in the register accordingly.
(2) The Director-General shall forthwith send a copy of such
request to the applicant or registered right holder, as the case
may be, requiring him to furnish him with a counter claim within
a period of two months from the date of such notice in the
prescribed manner together with any material if any in his
possession to prove his ownership of the layout design in question
and the prescribed fee. The applicant or the registered right holder
may send the Director-General a counter claim.
(3) Where the registered right holder or the applicant fails
to provide any information as required under subsection (2)
of this section, within the period specified, the Director-
General shall allow the request of the second mentioned
person and rectify the entry in the register.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 113
(4) If the applicant or the right holder sends a counter-
claim, as provided in subsection (2), the Director-General shall
after hearing both parties and taking into consideration the
merits of the case, shall make his determination and notify
the parties of his determination.
(5) Where after the filing of the application the person to
whom the right to protection belongs, gives his consent to
the filing of that application, such consent shall, for all
purposes, be deemed to be effective from the date of filing of
such application.
153. (1) A protected layout design may be assigned or Changes in the
transmitted and such assignment or transmission shall be in ownership and
writing, signed by or on behalf of the contracting parties. contractual
licenses.
(2) Upon a request in writing signed by or on behalf of
the assignor or transferor of the layout design the Director-
General shall on payment of the prescribed fee, record in the
register such particulars of change of ownership and publish
such change. Such change shall have no effect against third
parties until such recording is made.
(3) The right holder of layout design may grant a licence
to another person or enterprise authorizing it to do any or all
of the acts referred to in subsection (1) of section 148. Such
license contract shall be in writing and signed by or on behalf
of the contracting parties. Such license contract shall upon
registration of the layout design be submitted to theDirector-
General together with prescribed fee, who shall record or cause
to be recorded the existence of such license contract in the
register. A license contract shall have no effect against third
parties until it is so recorded.
154. (1) Any person interested in a layout design Cancellation of a
registered under section 151, or an appropriate Authority Registration of a
including the Director-General may file an application in the layout design.
Court, for the cancellation of such registration on the following
grounds :—
(a) that the layout design is not protected under sections
147 ;
114 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(b) that the right holder is not entitled to protection under
section 146; or
(c) that the layout design has been commercially exploited
in or out side Sri Lanka, before the filing of the
application for registration of the layout design, and
the application was not filed within the time limit
specified in subsection (2) of section 148 and
subsection (2) of section 150.
(2) On the establishment of grounds for cancellation of a
part of a layout design, the registration applicable to such
corresponding part only of the layout design, shall be
cancelled.
(3) The Court may on an application made to it in writing
by an interested party or any appropriate Authority including
the Director-General, and where the registered owner of the
layout design and every assignee, licensee or sub-licensee on
record shall be made party, make order for the cancellation
or partial cancellation of such registration.
(4) Any cancellation of a registration of layout design or
part thereof, shall have the effect of making null and void the
registration of a layout design or part thereof as the case may
be, and as such it shall be effective from the date of
commencement of the protection of such layout design.
(5) The Court shall notify the Director-General of its
decision and the Director-General shall record such decision
and publish a notice to that effect, in the Gazette.
Representation by 155. Where the ordinary residence, or principal, of the
an Agent. applicatant place of business, of the applicant is outside Sri
Lanka, he shall be represented by an agent registered under
section 175 of the Act.
Infringement. 156. (1) Infringement shall consist of the performance
of any act in contravention of the provisions of section 148.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 115
(2) The Court may grant an injunction, award damages or
grant any other proper remedy —
(a) to a right holder to prevent an infringement or
imminent infringement if he makes an application
having reason to believe that a layout design has been
made infringing the rights protected under section 148
of the Act ; or
(b) to a licencee, where the licencee makes an application
to court, in the event of the right holder failing or
neglecting to make an application to Court on his being
made aware of such infringement by the licencee.
(3) The provisions of Chapter XXXV of this Act shall
apply in respect of an infringement and the remedies available
to a right holder or a licencee.
(4) Any action under subsection (2) may be initiated only
after an application for registration of the layout design being
filed with the Director-General.
157. Any person who, knowingly or intentionally Offences.
contravenes the provisions of section 148, shall be guilty of
an offence, and shall on conviction after trial before a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding rupees five
hundred thousand or to imprisonment of either description
for a term not exceeding six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment and in the case of a second or subsequent
conviction such fine or term of imprisonment or both such
fine and imprisonment may be doubled. The Court may in
addition order the seizure, forfeiture and destruction of the
layout design, integrated circuits, articles or any material or
implement, which have been used for or in the commission
of the offence.
158. The provisions of sections 125A and 125B of the Application of
Customs Ordinance and sections 163 to 174, 177, 180, 187, certain provisions
of the Act.
191, 195 to 204 of the Act shall apply to and in relation to the
layout designs of integrated circuits.
116 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Interpretation. 159. In this Part unless the context otherwise
requires—
“integrated circuit” means a product, in its final form
or an intermediate form, in which the elements, at
least one of which is an active element, and some or
all of the interconnections are integrally formed in
or on a piece of material and which is intended to
perform an electronic function ;
“layout design” is synonymous with “topography” and
means the three dimensional disposition, however
expressed, of the elements, at least one of which is
an active element, and of some or all of the
interconnections of an integrated circuit, or such a
three-dimensional disposition prepared for an
integrated circuit intended for manufacture ;
“right holder” means the natural person who, or the legal
entity which, is to be regarded as the beneficiary of
the protection referred to in section 146.
PART VIII
CHAPTER XXXII
UNFAIRCOMPETITIONANDUNDISCLOSEDINFORMATION
Unfair 160. (1) (a) Any act or practice carried out or engaged
competition and in, in the course of industrial or commercial activities, that is
undisclosed
contrary to honest practices shall constitute an act of unfair
information.
competition.
(b) The provisions of this section shall apply
independently of, and in addition to, other provisions of the
Act protecting inventions, industrial designs, marks, trade
names, literary, scientific and artistic works and other
intellectual property.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 117
(2) (a) Any act or practice carried out or engaged in, in
the course of industrial or commercial activities, that causes,
or is likely to cause, confusion with respect to another’s
enterprise or its activities, in particular, the products or services
offered by such enterprise, shall constitute an act of unfair
competition.
(b) Confusion may, in particular, be caused with respect
to —
(i) a mark, whether registered or not ;
(ii) a trade name ;
(iii) a business identifier other than a mark or trade
name ;
(iv) the appearance of a product ;
(v) the presentation of products or services ;
(vi) celebrity or a well known fictional character.
(3) (a) Any act or practice carried out or engaged in, in the
course of industrial or commercial activities, that damages, or
is likely to damage, the goodwill or reputation of another’s
enterprise shall constitute an act of unfair competition, whether
or not such act or practice actually causes confusion.
(b) Damaging another’s goodwill or reputation may, in
particular, result from the dilution of the goodwill or reputation
attached to—
(i) a mark, whether registered or not ;
(ii) a trade name ;
(iii) a business identifier other than a mark or a trade
name ;
118 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(iv) the appearance of product ;
(v) the presentation of products or services;
(vi) celebrity or a well-known fictional character.
(c) For the purposes of these provisions, “dilution of
goodwill or reputation” means the lessening of the distinctive
character or advertising value of a mark, trade name or other
business identifier, the appearance of a product or the
presentations of products or services or of a celebrity or well
known fictional character.
(4) (a) Any act or practice carried out or engaged in, in
the course of any industrial or commercial activity, that
misleads, or is likely to mislead, the public with respect to an
enterprise or its activities, in particular, the products or services
offered by such enterprise, shall constitute an act of unfair
competition.
(b) Misleading may arise out of advertising or promotion
and may, in particular occur with respect to —
(i) the manufacturing process of a product ;
(ii) the suitability of a product or service for a particular
purpose ;
(iii) the quality or quantity or other characteristics of
products or services ;
(iv) the geographical indication of products or services ;
(v) the conditions on which products or services are
offered or provided ;
(vi) the price of products or services or the manner in
which it is calculated.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 119
(5) (a) any false or unjustifiable allegation, in the course
of industrial or commercial activities, that discredits, or is
likely to discredit, an enterprise of another person or the
activities of such enterprise, in particular, the products or
services offered by such enterprise, shall constitute an act of
unfair competition.
(b) Discrediting may arise out of advertising or promotion
and may, in particular, occur with respect to—
(i) the manufacturing process of a product ;
(ii) the suitability of a product or service for a particular
purpose ;
(iii) the quality or quantity or other characteristics of
products or services ;
(iv) the conditions on which products or services are
offered or provided ;
(v) the price of products or services or the manner in
which it is calculated.
(6) (a) Any act or practice, in the course of industrial or
commercial activities, that results in the disclosure,
acquisition or use by others, of undisclosed information
without the consent of the person lawfully in control of that
information (in this section referred to as “the rightful
holder”) and in a manner contrary to honest commercial
practices shall constitute an act of unfair competition.
(b) Disclosure, acquistion or use of undisclosed
information by others without the consent of the reghtful
holder may, in particular, result from—
(i) industrial or commercial espionage ;
(ii) breach of contract ;
(iii) breach of confidence ;
(iv) inducement to commit any of the acts referred to in
sub-paragraphs (i) to (iii) ;
120 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(v) acquisition of undisclosed information by a third
party who knew or was grossly negligent in failing
to know, that an act referred to in sub-paragraphs (i)
to (iv) was involved in the acquisition.
(c) For the purposes of this Act, information shall be
considered “undisclosed information” if—
(i) it is not, as a body or in the precise configuration
and assembly of its components, generally known
among, or readily accessible to, persons within the
circles that normally deal with the kind of information
in question ;
(ii) it has actual or potential commercial value because
it is secret ; and
(iii) it has been subject to reasonable steps under the
circumstances by the rightful holder to keep it secret.
(d) Any act or practice, in the course of industrial or
commercial activities, shall be considered an act of unfair
competition if it consists of results in—
(i) an unfair commercial use of secret test or other data,
the origination of which involves considerable effort
and which have been submitted to appropriate
authority for the purposes of obtaining approval of
the marketing of pharmaceutical or agricultural or
chemical products which utilize new chemical
entities ; or
(ii) the disclosure of such data, except where necessary
to protect the public, or unless steps have been taken
to ensure that the data is protected against unfair
commercial use.
(e) The undisclosed information for the purpose of this
Act shall include—
(i) technical information related to the manufacture of
goods or the provision of services ; or
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 121
(ii) business information which includes the internal
information which an enterprise has developed so as
to be used within the enterprise.
In this section the word “enterprise” has the same meaning
as in section 101 of the Act.
(7) Any person or enterprise or association of producers,
manufacturers or traders aggrieved by any act or practice
referred to in this Part, may institute proceedings in Court to
prohibit the continuance of such act or practice and obtain
damages for losses suffered as a result of such act or practice.
The provisions of Chapter XXXV of this Act relating to
infringement shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to such
proceeding.
(8) (a) Any person, who willfully and without lawful
authority, discloses any undisclosed information shall be guilty
of an offence under this Act and shall on conviction after trial
before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding five
hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(b) The provisions of Chapter XXXVIII of the Act shall
apply, mutatis mutandis, to the offence specified under this
subsection.
(9) The rights conferred by the provisions of subsection
(6) shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, any
common law rights.
PART IX
CHAPTER XXXIII
GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS
161. (1) Any interested party shall be entitled to Protection of
prevent— geographical
indications.
(i) the use of any means in the designation or
presentation of goods that indicates or suggests
that the goods including an agricultural product,
food, wine or spirit in question originates in a
122 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
geographical area other than the true place of
origin in a manner which misleads the public as
to the geographical origin of goods ; or
(ii) any use of a geographical indication which
constitutes an act of unfair competition within
the meaning of section 160 ;
(iii) the use of a geographical indication identifying
goods including an agricultural product, food,
wine or sprit not originating in the place indicated
by the geographical indication in question or
identifying goods not originating in the place
indicated by the geographical indication in
question, even where the true origin of the goods
is indicated or the geographical indication is used
in translation or accompanied by expression such
as kind, type, style or immitation or the like.
(2) The protection accorded to geographical indications
under sections 103, 160 and 161 shall be applicable against
a geographical indication which, although literally true as
to the territory, region or locality in which the goods
originate, falsely represents to the public that the goods
originate in another territory.
(3) In the case of homonymous geographical indications
for goods including an agricultural product, food, wine or
spirit, protection shall be accorded to each indication, subject
to the provisions of subsection (2) of this section. The Minister,
in case of permitted concurrent use of such indications, shall
determine by prescribed practical conditions under which the
homonymous indications in question will be differentiated
from each other, taking into consideration the need to ensure
equitable treatment of the producers concerned and the
protection of consumers from false or deceptive indications.
(4) The Court shall have power and jurisdiction to grant
an injunction and any other relief deemed appropriate to
prevent any such use as is referred to in this section. The
provisions of Chapter XXXV of the Act shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to such proceedings.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 123
(5) For the purposes of this section “geographical
indications” shall have the same meaning as in section 101.
PART X
CHAPTER XXXIV
CONSTITUTIONAND POWERSOF ADVISORY COMMISSION
162. (1) The Minister may constitute an Advisory Appointments &c.
Commission (hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”) of Advisory
Commission.
for the purpose of advising him on any matter referred to
him in relation to the law relating to Copyright, Industrial
Designs, Marks, Patents and Unfair Competition and any
other area or subject of Intellectual Property.
(2) The Commission constituted under subsection (1)
shall consist of—
(a) not less than five and not more than ten members
appointed by the Minister from among persons who
have shown capacity in law or commerce or related
fields, (hereinafter referred to as an “appointed
member”) ; and
(b) the Director-General who shall be an ex-officio
member and who shall function as the Secretary to
the Commission ;
(3) (a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (4), the
term of office of an appointed member of the Commission
shall be three years :
Provided that a member appointed in place of a member
who resigns or is removed or otherwise vacates office, shall
hold office for the unexpired portion of the part of term of
office of the member whom he succeeds ;
(b) An appointed member of the Commission who vacates
office by effluxion of time shall be eligible for re -appointment.
124 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(4) (a) An appointed member of the Commission may
resign from office by letter to that effect addressed to
the Minister and such resignation shall take effect
on such resignation being accepted by the Minister in writing.
(b) The Minister may at any time remove an appointed
member from office, assigning any reason therefor.
(c) Where an appointed member is temporarily
unable to discharge the duties of his office on account of
illness, absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the
Minister may appoint another person to act as a member in
his place.
(5) (a) The Minister shall appoint a Chairman of the
Commission (in this Part referred to as the “Chairman”) from
among the appointed members of the Commission ;
(b) If the Chairman is by reason of illness, other infirmity
or absence from Sri Lanka, temporarily unable to perform
the duties of his office, the Minister may appoint another
appointed member to act in his place.
(c) The Minister may at any time remove the Chairman
from office, assigning any reason therefor ;
(d) The Chairman may resign from the office of Chairman
by a letter to that effect addressed to the Minister in writing
and such resignation shall take effect on such resignation
being accepted by the Minister.
(e) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d),
the term of office of the Chairman shall be his period of
membership of the Commission.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 125
(6) There may be appointed such officers and servants
as may be necessary to assist the Commission in performing
its duties under this Part.
(7) The members of the Commission may be paid such
remuneration out of the Fund as may be determined by the
Minister in consultation with the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance.
(8) It shall be the duty of the Commission –
(a) to inquire into and report to the Minister, on any
matter or question relating to the law of Copyright,
Industrial Designs, Trade Marks, Patents and Unfair
Competition or any other matter relating to
Intellectual Property as may be referred to it by the
Minister from time to time ;
(b) to review the law relating to, and applicable to,
Copyright, Industrial Designs, Trade Marks, Patents
and Unfair Competition or any other matter relating
to intellectual property from time to time and to
make proposals to the Minister for the alteration,
modification or addition to such law ;
(c) in making the report or proposals referred to in
paragraph (a) or (b), to consult and take into
consideration where the Commission deems it
necessary to do so, the views of trade chambers,
professional organizations, related institutions,
government departments and the general public.
(9) The Minister may give special or general directions
in writing to the Commission, as to the performance of its
duties and the exercise of the powers, and the Commission
shall give effect to such directions.
126 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
PART XI
CHAPTER XXXV
APPLICATIONSTOANDPROCEEDINGSBEFORE,THE
DIRECTOR-GENERALAND COURT
Correction and 163. (1) The Director-General may, on application
rectification of
made in the prescribed manner by or on behalf of the
register.
registered owner of an industrial design, patent, trade mark
or any other registration provided for under the Act, correct
any error or make any change—
(a) in the name, address or description of the registered
owner of any Industrial Design, Patent or Mark or
any other registration provided for under the Act ;
(b) concerning any other particulars relating to the
registration of an Industrial Design, Patent or Mark
or any other registration as may be prescribed.
(2) Subject and without prejudice to other provisions of
the Act—
(a) the Court may on the application of any person
aggrieved by the non-insertion in or omission from
any register, of any entry, or by any entry made in
any register without sufficient cause, or by any entry
wrongly remaining on any register, or by any error
or defect in any entry in any register, make such
order for making, expunging, or varying such entry,
as it may think fit ;
(b) the Court may in any proceeding under this section
decide any question that may be necessary or
expedient to decide in connection with the
rectification of any register ;
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 127
(c) in case of fraud in the registration, assignment or
transmission of any registered Industrial Design,
Patent or Mark, or any other registration provided
for under the Act, the Director-General himself may
apply to the Court under the provisions of this
section.
(3) In any proceedings under this Act in which the relief
sought includes correction, alteration or rectification of any
register, the Director-General shall have the right to appear
and be heard, and shall appear if so directed by the Court.
Unless otherwise directed by the Court, the Director-General
in lieu of appearing and being heard may submit to the Court
a statement in writing signed by him, giving particulars of
the proceedings before him in relation to the matter in issue
or of the grounds of any decision given by him affecting the
same or of the practice of the office in like cases, or of such
other matters relevant to the issue, and within his knowledge
as such Director-General shall think fit, and such statement
shall be deemed to form part of the evidence in the
proceedings.
(4) The Court, in dealing with any question of the
correction, alteration or rectification of any register shall
have power to review any decision of the Director-General
relating to the entry in question or the correction, alteration
or rectification sought to be made.
164. (1) Where the Director-General is satisfied that Power to make
any volume of any register kept under this Act has been so copies of
damaged volumes
damaged as to render that volume incapable of being mended,
of any register, to
he may cause a copy thereof to be made and authenticated prepare and insert
in such manner as he may direct. reconstructed
folios.
(2) Any copy made and authenticated under the
provisions of subsection (1) shall replace the volume of which
it is a copy, and shall for all purposes be deemed to have the
same legal force and effect as the volume which such copy
replaces.
128 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(3) The Director-General shall cause every damaged
volume of which a copy has been made under the provisions
of subsection (1) to be preserved as long as it is reasonably
practicable for any reference which may be necessary.
(4) Where the Director-General, after due investigation,
is satisfied that any folio of any volume of any register has
been lost and cannot be recovered or that any such folio has
been permanently mutilated or so obliterated or damaged as
to render the entries or any material part of the entries therein
illegible, he may cause a reconstructed folio to be prepared.
(5) No folio shall be reconstructed as provided in
subsection (4) except in accordance with the prescribed
procedure, providing—
(a) for evidence to be admitted and used by the
Director-General in ascertaining the particulars
originally contained in the lost or mutilated or
damaged folio ;
(b) for the giving of notice by the Director-General of
the preparation of the reconstructed folio ;
(c) for the lodging of objections by any person affected
by any of the particulars contained in the folio to
be reconstructed ; and
(d) for the holding of an inquiry by the Director-General
into any such objections.
(6) Where any folio has been reconstructed by the
Director-General in accordance with the preceding provisions
of this section, the Director-General shall authenticate the
reconstructed folio in the prescribed manner and shall
thereafter cause the reconstructed folio to be inserted in the
appropriate volume of the register in the place formerly
occupied by the lost folio or in place of the mutilated or
damaged folio, or in a copy of a volume prepared under the
provisions of this section, as the case may be, and the
reconstructed folio, when so authenticated and inserted, shall
for all purposes be deemed to have the same legal force and
effect as the folio which such reconstructed folio replaces.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 129
(7) The Director-General may, after such inquiry as he
may deem necessary, correct any clerical error or omission
which may be discovered in any entry in any register or in
any certificate kept or issued under the provisions of this
Act and for that purpose may recall any such certificate and
amend the same or issue a fresh certificate in its place.
165. A certificate purporting to be under the hand of Certificate of
the Director-General as to any entry, matter, or thing which Director-General
to be evidence.
he is authorized by this Act or regulations made thereunder
to make or do, shall be, prima facie, evidence of the entry
having been made, and of the contents thereof, and of the
matter or thing having been done or not done.
166. Printed, mechanically produced, typed or written Certified copies to
copies or extracts, certified by the Director-General, of or be evidence.
from any document, register, or other book filed or kept under
this Act in the office shall be admitted in evidence in any
Court of Sri Lanka, without further proof or production of
the originals.
167. (1) In any proceeding under this Act before the Mode of giving
Court, the evidence shall be given by affidavit in the absence evidence.
of directions to the contrary. However in any case in which
the Court shall think it right so to do, the Court may take
evidence, viva voce, in lieu of or in addition to evidence by
affidavit.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply in respect of the giving of evidence at an
inquiry before the Director-General.
(3) In case any part of the evidence is taken viva voce,
the Director-General may exercise the powers conferred on
a Commission appointed under the provisions of the
Commissions of Inquiry Act for compelling the attendance
of witnesses and the production of documents and for
administering oaths to all persons who shall be examined
before him.
130 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Exercise of 168. Where any discretionary or other power is given
discretionary to the Director-General by this Act or any regulation made
power by thereunder, he shall not exercise that power adversely in
Director–General.
respect of the applicant for registration or the registered
owner of an Industrial Design, Patent or Mark or any other
matter provided under this Act without (if duly required so
to do within the prescribed time) giving such applicant or
registered owner an opportunity of being heard.
Director-General 169. The Director-General may, in any case of doubt or
may seek difficulty arising in the administration of any of the provisions
assistance of
Attorney-General. of this Act, seek the assistance of the Attorney-General.
Infringement and 170. (1) Where a person to whom any recognised rights
the remedies. granted under this Act, proves to the astisfaction of the Court
that any person is threatening to infringe or has infringed his
rights or is performing acts which makes it likely to infringe a
right under this Act, will occur, the Court may grant an
injunction restraining any such person from commencing or
continuing such infringement or performing such acts and
may order damages and such other relief as the Court may
deem just and equitable. The injunction may be granted along
with an award of damages and shall not be denied only for the
reason that the applicant is entitled to damages.
(2) The defendant may in the proceedings referred to in
subsection (1) request the Court to declare the registration
of an Industrial Design, Patent, Mark or any other registration
provided for under the Act, as the case may be, or any part
of it, null and void, in which event the provisions of the
section relating to the nullity of such registration shall apply
as appropriate.
(3) (a) The court shall have the power to order—
(i) the infringer to pay the right holder such
damages as are adequate to compensate
him for the loss suffered by him, by reason
of such infringement, in addition to the
recovery of any profits ;
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 131
(ii) the infringing goods to be disposed of
outside the channels of commerce or to
be destroyed without the payment of any
compensation ; and
(iii) subject to the protection of confidential
information, the tendering of any evidence
by the opposing party which evidence is
relevant to the substantiation of the claim
and is in the control of the opposing party,
in cases where a party has presented
reasonably available evidence in support
of the claim and has specified that evidence
relevant to the substantiation of such claim
lies in the control of the opposing party.
(b) The court may make any order specified in subsection
(1) in respect of materials and implements used in the creation
of the infringing goods.
(4) In making such orders the need for maintaining a
balance between the seriousness of the infringement and the
remedies ordered, as well as the interests of third parties
shall be taken into consideration. In regard to counterfeit
trade mark goods, the simple removal of the trade mark
unlawfully affixed shall not other than in exceptional cases,
be sufficient, to permit the release of the goods into the
channels of commerce.
(5) The Court may, other than in an instance where it
would not be in proportion to the seriousness of the
infringement, order the infringer to inform the right holder
of the identity of the persons involved in the production and
distribution of the infringing goods or services and of
channels of distribution used by them.
(6) The Court shall have power to order interim measures
relating to protection, ex-parte, where appropriate, in
particular where any delay is likely to cause irreparable harm
to the right holder or where there is a demonstrable risk of
evidence being destroyed.
132 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(7) Where interim measures have been ordered ex-parte
the parties affected shall be given notice and shall on receipt
of such notice be entitled to be heard as to whether the interim
measures ordered should be modified or revoked.
(8) Where the interim measures are modified or revoked
or it is subsequently found that there has been no infringement
of a protected right, the Court shall have the power to order
the applicant, upon the request of the defendant to pay
appropriate compensation for any injury caused.
(9) The Court may require the applicant to provide
security or other equivalent assurance sufficient to protect
the defendant and to prevent abuse of any interim measures
referred to in the preceding provisions of this section.
(10) Any owner of the rights protected under this Act
may, notwithstanding any provision in the Act relating to
the award of damages, elect at any time before final judgment
to recover, instead of proved actual damages, an award of
statutory damages for any infringement involved in the action
of a sum not less than rupees fifty thousand and not more
than rupees one million as the court may consider
appropriate and just.
(11) No suit or prosecution shall lie against any official
for any act which is done in good faith and in pursuance of
any provisions of this Act.
Infringement 171. In the absence of any provision to the contrary in
proceedings by or a licence contract relating to an Industrial Design, Patent or
at the request of
Mark or any other matter provided for by the Act, the licensee
licensee.
may—
(a) in respect of the threatened infringement,
infringement or acts referred to in section 170
request the registered owner of the Industrial
Design, Patent or Mark or any other matter provided
for by the Act, to apply for an injunction :
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 133
Provided that the licensee shall indicate the
threatened infringement, infringement or acts being
performed in relation to such infringement and
specify the relief sought under the Act ; and
(b) if the owner of the said Industrial Design, Patent or
Mark or any other matter provided for by this Act
refuses or fails to apply for an injunction within three
months from the receipt of the said request, apply
for an injunction in his own name, with notice to the
registered owner who may join in the proceedings :
Provided that the Court may, on the application
of the licensee, prior to the expiry of the period of
three months, specified in paragraph (b) of this
section grant an injunction if he proves that
immediate action is necessary to avoid substantial
damage.
172. (1) The Court may on the application of any person Declaration of
showing a legitimate interest to which the registered owner non-infringement.
of the Industrial Design, Patent or Mark, or any other matter
provided for under the Act as the case may be, shall be made
party, declare that the threatened performance or performance
of a specific act does not constitute a threatened infringement
or infringement of the said Industrial Design, Patent or Mark
or any other matter provided for under the Act.
(2) The registered owner of the industrial design, patent
or Mark or any other register provided for under the Act, as
the case may be, shall give notice of the said application to
any assignee or licensee, who shall be entitled to join in the
proceedings in the absence of any provision to the contrary
in any agreement with the registered owner.
(3) The proceedings for a declaration of non-infringement
may be instituted concurrently with proceedings to declare
the registration of an Industrial Design, Patent or Mark or
any other matter provided for by the Act be null and void :
134 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
Provided that the matters in issue in the proceedings for
a declaration of non-infringement are not already the subject
of infringement proceedings.
(4) The provisions of the Judicature Act, No. 2 of 1978,
and the Civil Procedure Code shall apply to every application
for an injunction made to the Court under this Act.
Appeals. 173. (1) Any person aggrieved by any decision made
by the Director-General under any provision of the Act may
appeal therefrom to the Court within a period of six months
from the date of such decision.
(2) Such person may prefer an appeal to the Court by
way of a petition of appeal with a certified copy of the
decision appealed form, accompanied by copies of all
relevant documents and affidavits from the file of the
Intellectual Property Office. A copy of the petition of appeal
and the accompanying documents and the affidavits shall
be served on the Director-General and other respondents
named in the petition of appeal. Proof of such service shall
be furnished with the petition of appeal to the Court. The
respondents may file a statement of objections.
(3) Court may call for the original file from the Director-
General and may receive and admit new evidence by way of
affidavit and documents, additional to, or supplementary of,
the evidence already given before the Director-General in
respect of the matter issue as the Court may require.
(4) On any such appeal, the Court may affirm, reverse or
vary the decision of the Director-General or may issue such
directions to the Director-General, or order a further hearing
by the Director-General, as the court may require.
(5) Any person who is dissatisfied with any Order made
by the Court under subsection (4) to which such person is a
party may prefer an appeal to the Supreme Court against
such Order for the correction of any error in fact or in law,
with the leave of the Supreme Court first had and obtained.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 135
(6) Every appeal to the Supreme Court under subsection
(5) shall be made as nearly as may be in accordance with
the procedure prescribed by the rules of the Supreme Court
with respect to special leave to appeal to the Supreme Court.
174. (1) In all proceedings before the Director-General Costs of
under this Act, the Director-General shall have power to award proceedings
before Director-
any party such costs as he may consider reasonable, and to
General and
direct to whom and to what parties they are to be paid, and Court.
such order may be filed in Court, and thereupon such order
may be enforced as if it were an order of the Court.
(2) In any proceedings before a Court under this Act, the
Director-General shall not be ordered to pay costs. The Court
may however in its descretion Order the payment of costs to
the Director-General.
CHAPTER XXXVI
REGISTERED AGENTS
175. (1) An Agent referred to in this Act means an agent Registered agents.
registered under the provisions of the Act or in accordance
with any regulation made thereunder.
(2) Any person registered as an agent under this Act shall
have the authority and be competent to act as an agent under
this Act.
(3) A person may be admitted and registered as an agent
if he—
(a) is a citizen of Sri Lanka and is ordinarily
resident in Sri Lanka ; and
(b) (i) is an Attorney-At-Law of the Supreme
Court of Sri Lanka ; or
(ii) is a person possessing the qualifications
prescribed for an agent ; and
(c) pays the prescribed fee.
136 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(4) A corporate body or a firm may act as an agent if the
majority of the Directors of such corporate body or if the
majority of the partners of the firm, as the case may be, are
registered agents.
(5) The registration of an agent under this Act shall be
valid for a period of three years and shall be renewable,
subject to the payment of a prescribed fee, for a consecutive
period of three years provided, however, that a period of
grace of six months shall be allowed for renewal upon
payment of such surcharge as may be prescribed.
(6) Notwithstanding anything in the provisions of
subsection (2), any duly appointed agent, irrespective of
not being registered under this Chapter, may represent his
clients, for a period of two years from the date on which the
provisions of this Chapter comes into operation.
(7) The power of attorney referred to in this Act means a
power of attorney duly executed or a letter of authorisation
duly signed by the principal.
CHAPTER XXXVII
FUND
Fund. 176. (1) For the purposes of this Act there shall be
established a Fund which shall be maintained in such manner
as the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of
the subject of Trade in consultation with the Director-General
may direct.
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund two-thirds of every
fee or charge, levied or recoverable under this Act or any
regulation made thereunder.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund referred to in
subsection (1) all sums of money required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Director-General in the exercise,
discharge and performance of his powers, functions and
