136 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(4) A corporate body or a firm may act as an agent if the
majority of the Directors of such corporate body or if the
majority of the partners of the firm, as the case may be, are
registered agents.
(5) The registration of an agent under this Act shall be
valid for a period of three years and shall be renewable,
subject to the payment of a prescribed fee, for a consecutive
period of three years provided, however, that a period of
grace of six months shall be allowed for renewal upon
payment of such surcharge as may be prescribed.
(6) Notwithstanding anything in the provisions of
subsection (2), any duly appointed agent, irrespective of
not being registered under this Chapter, may represent his
clients, for a period of two years from the date on which the
provisions of this Chapter comes into operation.
(7) The power of attorney referred to in this Act means a
power of attorney duly executed or a letter of authorisation
duly signed by the principal.
CHAPTER XXXVII
FUND
Fund. 176. (1) For the purposes of this Act there shall be
established a Fund which shall be maintained in such manner
as the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of
the subject of Trade in consultation with the Director-General
may direct.
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund two-thirds of every
fee or charge, levied or recoverable under this Act or any
regulation made thereunder.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund referred to in
subsection (1) all sums of money required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Director-General in the exercise,
discharge and performance of his powers, functions and
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 137
duties under this Act and all such sums of money as are
required to be paid out of such Fund by or under this Act or
any regulation made thereunder.
(4) The balance one-third of the money paid into the Fund
under subsection (2), of each and every such fee or charge
levied or recoverable under this Act or any regulation made
thereunder shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund.
(5) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Ttrade shall as soon as possible after the
end of each calendar year prepare a report on the
administration of the Fund and shall cause to be maintained
a full and appropriate account of the Fund in respect of each
calendar year.
(6) The Auditor-General shall audit the accounts of the
Fund in terms of Article 154 of the Constitution.
(7) The financial year of the Fund shall be the calendar
year.
CHAPTER XXXVIII
OFFENCESAND PENALTIES
177. Any person who makes or causes to be made a Falsification of
false entry in any of the registers kept under this Act, or a entries in any
writing falsely purporting to be a copy of an entry in any register.
such register, or produces, or tenders, or causes to be
produced or tendered in evidence any such writing, knowing
the entry or writing to be false shall be guilty of an offence
and shall on conviction after trial before a Magistrate be
liable to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years.
178. (1) Any person who wilfully infringes any of the Infringement of
rights protected under Part II of this Act shall be guilty of an Copyright.
offence and shall be liable on conviction after trial before a
Magistrate to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred
138 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
thousand or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months or to both such fine and such imprisonment, and in
the case of a second or subsequent conviction such fine or
term of imprisonment or both such fine and imprisonment
may be doubled.
(2) Any person knowing or having reason to believe that
copies have been made in infringement of the rights protected
under Part II of the Act, sells, displays for sale, or has in his
possession for sale or rental or for any other purpose of trade
any such copies, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction by a Magistrate for a fine not exceeding
rupees five hundred thousand or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding six months or to both such fine and such
imprisonment, and in the case of a second or subsequent
conviction, to double the amount of a such fine or term of
imprisonment or both.
(3) Any person knowingly or having reasons to believe
that he is in possession or has access to a computer program
infringing the rights of another person, and wilfully makes
use of such program for commercial gain, shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction by a Magistrate
for a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand or to
imprisonment for a period of six months or to both such fine
and imprisonment.
(4) The Magistrate may, whether the alleged offender is
convicted or not, order that all copies of the work and all
implements used for the infringement, or all plates in the
possession of the alleged offender, which appear to him to
be infringing copies, or plates or implements used for the
purpose of making infringing copies, shall be destroyed or
delivered up to the owner of the right, or otherwise dealt
with in such manner as the Magistrate may think fit.
Infringement of 179. Any person who wilfully infringes the rights of
Industrial
any registered owner, assignee or licensee of an Industrial
Designs.
Design shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction after trial before a Magistrate to a fine not
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 139
exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding six months or to both such fine and
such imprisonment, and in the case of a second or subsequent
conviction to double the amount of such fine or term of
imprisonment or both.
180. (1) Any person who, for industrial or commercial False
purposes, makes a representation — representations
regarding
industrial Designs.
(a) with respect to an Industrial Design not being a
registered Industrial Design to the effect that it is a
registered Industrial Design ;
(b) to the effect that a registered Industrial Design is
registered in respect of any product, regarding
which registration has not been carried out ;
(c) to the effect that the registration of an Industrial
Design gives an exclusive right to the use thereof
in any circumstances in which, having regard to
limitations recorded in the register, the registration
does not give that right,
shall be guilty of an offence, and shall on conviction after
trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding
five hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding six months or to both such fine and such
imprisonment.
(2) A person shall be deemed to represent that an
Industrial Design is registered if he uses in connection with
the Industrial Design the word “registered”, or any word or
words expressing or implying that registration has been
obtained for the Industrial Design.
181. Any person who wilfully infringes the rights of any Infringement of
registered owner, assignee or licensee of a patent shall be guilty Patents.
of an offence, and shall be liable on conviction after trial before
a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand
rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months
or to both such fine and such imprisonment, and in the case
140 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
of a second or subsequent conviction to double the amount
of such fine or term of imprisonment or both.
False 182. (1) Any person who, for industrial or commercial
representations purposes, makes a representation –
regarding Patents.
(a) with respect to a patent not being a registered patent
to the effect that it is a registered Patent ;
(b) to the effect that a registered Patent is registered in
respect of any product or process regarding which
registration has not been carried out ; or
(c) to the effect that the registration of a Patent gives
an exclusive right to the use thereof in any
circumstances in which, having regard to limitations
recorded in the register, the registration does not
give that right,
shall be guilty of an offence, and shall be liable on conviction
after trial before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five
hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months or to both such fine and such
imprisonment.
(2) A person shall be deemed to represent a Patent as
registered if he uses in connection with the Patent the word
“registered”, or any word or words expressing or implying
that registration has been obtained for the Patent.
Unlawful 183. Any person who being or having been employed in
disclosure of or at the office, communicates any information relating to
information Patents or matters connected therewith obtained by him during
relating to Patents.
the course of his employment in or at the office to any person
not entitled or authorized to receive such information, or
discloses such information to the public or makes any other
unlawful use of such information shall be guilty of an offence,
and shall on conviction after trial before a Magistrate be liable
to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding twelve months or to
both such fine and such imprisonment.
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 141
184. Any person who wilfully infringes the rights of Infringement of
any registered owner, assignee or licensee of a Mark, shall Marks.
be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction after trial
before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding five
hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months or to both such fine and such
imprisonment and in the case of a second or subsequent
conviction to double the amount of such fine or term of
imprisonment or both such fine and imprisonment.
185. (1) Any person who, for industrial or commercial False
purposes, makes a representation— representations
regarding marks.
(a) with respect to a Mark not being a registered Mark
to the effect that it is a registered Mark ;
(b) to the effect that a registered mark is registered in
respect of any goods or services regarding which
registration has not been carried out ; or
(c) to the effect that the registration of a mark gives an
exclusive right to the use thereof in any
circumstances, in which having regard to limitations
recorded in the register, the registration does not
give that right,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction after trial
before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding five
hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) A person shall be deemed to represent a Mark as
registered if he uses in connection with the Mark the word
“registered”, or any word or sign expressing or implying
that registration has been obtained for the mark.
186. (1) Any person who— Other offences as
to marks and trade
(a) forges any Mark ; or descriptions.
(b) falsely applies to goods any Mark or Marks so nearly
resembling a registered Mark as to be likely to
mislead ; or
142 Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003
(c) makes any die, seal block, machine, or other
instrument for the purpose of forging, or to be used
for forging, a Mark ; or
(d) applies any false trade description to goods ; or
(e) disposes of, or has in his possession, any die, seal
block, machine, or other instrument for the purpose
of forging a Mark ; or
(f) causes any of the things referred to in this subsection
to be done,
shall, subject to the provisions of this Part, and unless he proves
that he acted without intent to defraud, be guilty of an offence.
(2) Any person who sells or exposes for sale, or has in his
possession for sale, or any purpose of trade or manufacture,
any goods or things to which any forged Mark or false trade
description is applied, or to which any Mark so nearly
resembling a registered Mark so as to be likely to mislead, is
falsely applied, as the case may be, shall, unless he proves—
(a) that having taken all reasonable precautions against
committing an offence he had at the time of the
commission of the alleged offence no reason to
suspect the genuineness of the Mark, or trade
description ; and
(b) that on demand made by or on behalf of the
prosecutor he gave all the information in his power
with respect to the persons from whom he obtained
such goods or things ; or
(c) that otherwise he had acted innocently,
be guilty of an offence.
(3) Any person who imports any piece-goods ordinarily
sold by length or by the piece, manufactured outside
Sri Lanka, or who sells or exposes for, or has in his possession
for sale or any purpose of trade, any piece-goods ordinarily
