Cap. 92] BILLS OF EXCHANGE
Liability of 66. (1) The acceptor for honour of a bill (3) Payment for honour supra protest, in
acceptor for by accepting it engages that he will, on due order to operate as such and not as a mere
honour.
presentment, pay the bill according to the voluntary payment, must be attested by a
tenor of his acceptance, if it is not paid by notarial act of honour which may be
the drawee, provided it has been duly appended to the protest or form an
presented for payment, and protested for extension of it.
non-payment, and that he receives notice of
these facts- (4) The notarial act of honour must be
founded on a declaration made by the payer
(2) The acceptor for honour is liable to for honour, or his agent in that behalf,
the holder and to all parties to the bill declaring his intention to pay the bill for
subsequent to the party for whose honour honour, and for whose honour he pays.
he has accepted.
(5) Where a bill has been paid for
honour, all parties subsequent to the party
Presentment to 67. (1) Where a dishonoured bill has for whose honour it is paid are discharged,
acceptor for been accepted for honour supra protest, or but the payer for honour is subrogated for,
honour.
contains a reference in case of need, it must and succeeds to both the rights and duties
be protested for non-payment before it is of, the holder as regards the party for whose
presented for payment to the acceptor for honour he pays, and all parties liable to that
honour, or referee in case of need. party.
(6) The payer for honour on paying to
(2) Where the address of the acceptor for
the holder the amount of the bill and the
honour is in the same place where the bill is
notarial expenses incidental to its dishonour
protested for non-payment, the bill must be
is entitled to receive both the bill itself and
presented to him not later than the day
the protest. If the holder do not on demand
following its maturity; "and where the
deliver them up he shall be liable to the
address of the acceptor for honour is in
payer for honour in damages.
some place other than the place where it was
protested for non-payment, the bill must be
(7) Where the holder of a bill refuses to
forwarded not later than the day following
receive payment supra protest he shall lose
its maturity for presentment to him.
his right of recourse against any party who
would have been discharged by such
(3) Delay in presentment or non-
payment.
presentment is excused by any circumstance
which would excuse delay in presentment
for payment or . non-presentment for
LOST INSTRUMENTS
payment.
69. Where a bill has been lost before it is Holder's right
(4) When a bill of exchange is
overdue, the person who was the holder of it to duplicate of
dishonoured by the acceptor for honour it , , . , . • r
may apply to the drawer to give him lost bill.
must be protested for non-payment by him.
another bill of the same tenor, giving
security to the drawer if required to
Payment for 68. (1) Where a bill has been protested indemnify him against all persons whatever
Honour supra for non-payment, any person may intervene in case the bill alleged to have been lost
protest.
and pay it supra protest for the honour of shall be found again.
any party liable thereon, or for the honour
of the person for whose account the bill is If the drawer on request as aforesaid
drawn. refuses to give such duplicate bill, he may be
compelled to do so.
(2) Where two or more persons offer to
pay a bill.for the honour of different parties, 70. In any action or proceeding upon a Action on lost
the person whose payment will discharge bill, the court or a judge may order that the bi11-
most parties to the bill shall have the loss of the instrument shall not be set up,
preference. provided an indemnity be given to the
IV/178
BILLS OF EXCHANGE [Cap.92
satisfaction of the court or judge against the the validity as regards requisites in
claims of any other person upon the form of the supervening contracts,
instrument in question. such as acceptance, or indorsement,
or acceptance supra protest, is
BILL IN A SET determined by the law of the place
where such contract was made:
Rules as to 71. (1) Where a bill is drawn in a set,
sets. each part of the set being numbered, and
Provided that—
containing a reference to the other parts, the
whole of the parts constitute one bill.
(a) where a bill is issued outside Sri
Lanka it is not invalid by
(2)Where the holder of a set indorses two
reason only that it is not
or more parts to different persons, he is
stamped in accordance with
liable on every such part, and every indorser
the law of the place of issue ;
subsequent to him is liable on the part he
has himself indorsed as if the said parts were
(b) where a bill issued outside Sri
separate bills.
Lanka conforms, as regards
(3) Where two or more parts of a set are requisites in form, to the law
negotiated to different holders in due of Sri Lanka, it may, for the
course, the holder whose title first accrues is purpose of enforcing payment
as between such holders deemed the true thereof, be treated as valid as
owner of the bill; but nothing in this between all persons who
subsection shall affect the rights of a person negotiate, hold, or become
who in due course accepts or pays the part parties to it in Sri Lanka.
first presented to him.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this
(4) The acceptance may be written on any Ordinance, the interpretation of the
part, and it must be written on one part
drawing, indorsement, acceptance,
only. or acceptance supra protest of a
bill, is determined by the law of the
If the drawee accepts more than one part,
place where such contract is made:
and such accepted parts get into the hands
of different holders in due course, he is
Provided that where an inland bill is
'liable on every such part as if it were a
indorsed in a foreign country the
separate bill.
indorsement shall as regards the
payer be interpreted according to
(5) When the acceptor of a bill drawn in
the law of Sri Lanka.
a set pays it without requiring the part
bearing his acceptance to be delivered up to
(3) The duties of the holder with respect
him, and that part at maturity is
to presentment for acceptance or
outstanding in the hands of a holder in due
payment and the necessity for or
course, he is liable to the holder thereof.
sufficiency of a protest or notice of
dishonour or otherwise, are
(6) Subject to the preceding rules, where
determined by the law of the place
any one part of a bill drawn in a set is
where the act is done or the bill is
discharged by payment or otherwise the
dishonoured.
whole bill is discharged.
(4) Where a bill is drawn out of but
CONFLICT OF LAWS payable In Sri Lanka, and the sum
payable is not expressed in the
Rules where 72. Where a bill drawn in one country is
* currency of Sri Lanka, the amount
laws conflict, negotiated, accepted, or payable in another,
shall, in the absence of some
the rights, duties, and liabilities of the
express stipulation, be calculated
parties thereto are determined as follows ;—
according to the rate of exchange
(1) The validity of a bill as regards for sight drafts at the place of
requisites in form is determined by payment on the day the bill is
the law of the place of issue, and payable.
IV/179
Cap. 92] BILLS OF EXCHANGE
(5) Where a bill is drawn in one country (a) countermand of payment;
and is payable in another, the due
date thereof is determined (b) notice of the customer's death.
according to the law of the place
where it is payable, CROSSED CHEQUES
76. (1) Where a cheque bears across its General and
PART III face an addition of two parallel transverse special
crossings
lines, either with or without the words
defined.
CHEQUES ON A BANKER
[§4, 30 of
"not negotiable", that 1961.]
Cheque 73. A cheque is a bill of exchange drawn addition constitutes a crossing and the
defined. on a banker payable on demand. cheque is crossed generally.
(2) Where a cheque bears across its face [§ 4, 30 of
Except as otherwise provided in this Part, an addition of the name of a banker, either 1961.1
the provisions of this Ordinance applicable with or without the words
to a bill of exchange payable on demand " not negotiable", that addition constitutes a
apply to a cheque.
crossing, and the cheque is crossed specially
and to that banker.
Presentment 74. Subject to the provisions of this
of cheque Ordinance—
for payment. 77. (1) A cheque may be crossed Crossing by
generally or specially by the drawer, drawer or
(1) Where a cheque is not presented for
6 -' • •' •• after issue.
payment within a reasonable time
(2) Where a cheque is uncrossed, the
of its issue, and the drawer or the
holder may cross it generally or specially.
person on whose account it is
drawn had the right at the time of
(3) Where a cheque is crossed generally,
such presentment as between him
the holder may cross it specially.
and the banker to have the cheque
paid and suffers actual damage
(4) Where a cheque is crossed generally [ § 5,30 of
through the delay, he is discharged
to the extent of such damage, that
or specially, the holder may add the words 1961-]
is to say, to the extent to which " not negotiable ".
such drawer or person is a creditor
of such banker to a larger amount
(5) Where a cheque is crossed specially,
than he would have been" had such
the banker to whom it is crossed may again
cheque been paid.
cross it specially to another banker for
collection.
(2) In determining what is a reasonable
time regard shall be had to the
(6) Where an uncrossed cheque or a
nature of the instrument, the usage
cheque crossed generally is sent to a banker
of trade and of bankers, and the
for collection, he may cross it specially to
facts of the particular case.
himself.
(3) The holder of such cheque as to which
78. A crossing authorized by this Crossing a
such drawer or person is discharged
Ordinance is a material part of the cheque ; material part
shall be a creditor, in lieu of such of cheque.
it shall not be lawful for any person to
drawer or person, of such banker to
obliterate, or, except as authorized by this
the extent of such discharge, and
•Ordinance, to add to or alter the crossing.
entitled to recover the amount from
him.
79. (1) Where a cheque is crossed Duties of
specially to more than one banker, except banker -as to
crossed
Revocation of 75. The duty and authority of a banker when crossed to an agent for collection cheque.
banker's to pay a cheque drawn on him by his being a banker, the banker on whom it is
authority.
customer are determined by— drawn shall refuse payment thereof.
IV/180
