BILLS OF EXCHANGE [Cap. 92
(2) Where the banker on whom a cheque specially to himself, and the customer has
is drawn which is so crossed nevertheless no title or a defective title thereto, the
pays the same, or pays a cheque crossed banker shall not incur any liability to the
generally otherwise than to a banker, or if true owner of the cheque by reason only of
crossed specially otherwise than to the having received such payment.
banker to whom it is crossed, or his agent
for collection being a banker, he is liable to (2) A banker receives payment of a
the true owner of the cheque for any loss he crossed cheque for a customer within the
may sustain owing to the cheque having meaning of this section notwithstanding that
been so paid: he credits his customer's account with the
amount of the cheque before receiving
Provided that where a cheque is presented
payment thereof.
for payment which does not at the time of
presentment appear to be crossed, or to
have had a crossing which has been 83. Sections 76 to 82, both inclusive, of Extension of
obliterated, or to have been added to or this Ordinance shall extend to any sections 76 to
82 to certain
altered otherwise than as authorized by this document issued by a customer of any drafts on
Ordinance, the banker paying the cheque in banker, and intended to enable any person bankers.
good faith and without negligence shall not or body corporate to obtain payment from
be responsible or incur any liability, nor such banker of the sum mentioned in such
shall the payment be questioned by reason document, and shall so extend in like
of the cheque having been crossed, or of the manner as if the said document were a
crossing having been obliterated or having cheque:
been added to or altered otherwise than as
authorized by this Ordinance, and of Provided that nothing in this Ordinance
payment having been made otherwise than shall be deemed to render any such
to a banker or to the banker to whom the document a negotiable instrument.
cheque is or was crossed, or to his agent for
collection being a banker, as the case may For the purpose of this section, the
be. Deputy Secretary to the Treasury shall be
deemed to be a banker, and the public
Protection to 80. Where the banker on whom a officers drawing on him shall be deemed
banker and crossed cheque is drawn, in good faith and customers.
drawer where
without negligence pays it, if crossed
cheque is
crossed. generally, to a banker, and if crossed 84. Sections 76 to 82, both inclusive, of Application
specially, to the banker to whom it is this Ordinance shall apply to a banker's of sections
76 to 82 to
crossed, or his agent for collection, being a draft as if that draft were a cheque.
drafts drawn
banker, the banker paying the cheque, and, by a bank on
if the cheque has come into the hands of the For the purposes of this section, the itself.
payee, the drawer, shall respectively be expression " banker's draft" means a draft
entitled to the same rights and be placed in payable on demand drawn by or on behalf
the same position as if payment of the of a bank upon itself, whether payable at
cheque had been made to the true owner the head office or some other office of the
thereof. bank.
Effect of 81. Where a person takes a crossed
crossing with cheque which bears on it the words PART IV
words
" not " not negotiable ", he shall
negotiable" not have and shall not be capable of giving ' PROMISSORY NOTES
on holder.
[§6.30 of 11 a better title to the cheque than that which
1961.] the person from whom he took it had. 85. (1) A promissory note is an Promissory
unconditional promise in writing made by note defined.
one person to another signed by the maker,
engaging to pay, on demand or at a fixed or .
Protection to 82. (1) Where a banker in good faith determinable future time, a sum certain in
collecting and without negligence receives payment for money, to,- or to the order of, a specified
banker.
a customer of a cheque crossed generally or person or to bearer.
IV/181
Cap. 92] BILLS OF EXCHANGE
(2) An instrument in the form of a note (2) Presentment for payment is necessary
payable to maker's order is not a note in order to render the indorser of a note
within the meaning of this section, unless liable.
and until it is indorsed by the maker.
(3) Where a note is in the body of it made
(3) A note is not invalid by reason only
payable at a particular place, presentment at
that it contains also a pledge of collateral
that place is necessary in order to render an
security with authority to sell or dispose
indorser liable; but when a place of
thereof.
payment is indicated by way of
memorandum only, presentment at that
(4) A note which is, or on the face of it
place is sufficient to render the indorser
purports to be, both made and payable
liable, but a presentment to the maker
within Sri Lanka is an inland note. Any
elsewhere, if sufficient in other respects,
other note is a foreign note.
shall also suffice.
Delivery 86. A promissory note is inchoate and
necessary. incomplete until delivery thereof to the
90. The maker of a promissory note by Liability of
payee or bearer.
making it— maker-
Joint and 87. (1) A promissory note may be made (a) engages that he will pay it according
several notes. by two or more makers, and they may be to its tenor;
liable thereon jointly, or jointly and
severally, according to its tenor. (b) is precluded from denying to a holder
in due course the existence of the
(2) Where a note runs " I promise to payee and his then capacity to
pay " and is signed by two or more persons, indorse.
it is deemed to be their joint and several
note.
91. (1) Subject to the provisions in this Application of
Part. and except as by this section provided, part II to
Note payable 88. (1) Where a note payable on .
the provisions of this Ordinance relating to notes
on demand. demand has been indorsed, it must be
bills of exchange apply, with the necessary
presented for payment within a reasonable
modifications, to promissory notes.
time of the indorsement. If it be not so
presented the indorser is discharged.
(2) In applying those provisions the
(2) In determining what is a reasonable maker of a note shall be deemed to
time, regard shall be had to the nature of correspond with the acceptor of a bill, and
the instrument, the usage of trade, and the the first indorser of a note shall be deemed
facts of the particular case. to correspond with the drawer of an
accepted bill payable to drawer's order.
(3) Where a note payable on demand is
negotiated, it is not deemed to be overdue,.
(3) The following provisions as to bills do
for the purpose of affecting the holder with
not apply to notes, namely, provisions
defects of title of which he had no notice, by
relating to—
reason that it appears that a reasonable time
for presenting it for payment has elapsed
(a) presentment for acceptance;
since its issue.
(b) acceptance;
Presentment of 89. (1) Where a promissory note is in
note for the body of it made payable at a particular •(c) acceptance supra protest;
payment to
place, it must be presented for payment at
render maker
liable. that place in order to render the maker (d) bills in a set.
liable. In any other case, presentment for
payment is not necessary in order to render (4) Where a foreign note is dishonoured,
the maker liable. protest thereof is unnecessary.
IV/182
