Cap.92] BILLS OF EXCHANGE
otherwise provides, interest runs from the Provided that—
date of the bill, and if the bill is undated,
(i) where the holder in good faith and by
from the issue thereof.
mistake inserts a wrong date, and
(4) Where. a bill is expressed to be
(ii) in every case where a wrong date is
payable with interest, unless the instrument
inserted, if the bill subsequently comes into
otherwise provides, the interest shall be at
the hands of a holder in due course the bill
the rate of mneper centum per annum :
shall not be avoided thereby, but shall
operate and be payable as if the date so
Provided that the amount recoverable on
inserted had been the true date.
account of interest or arrears of interest
shall in no case exceed the principal.
13. (1) Where a bill or an acceptance Presumption as
Bill payable on 10. (1) A bill is payable on demand— or any , i , n , dors , emen , t on a bill , is dated, , th , e t t o r u e d a d t a e t e b . eing
demand. date shall, unless the contrary be proved, be
(a) which is expressed to be payable on deemed to be the true date of the drawing,
demand, or at sight, or on acceptance, or indorsement, as the case may
presentation ; or be.
(2) A bill is not invalid by reason only
(b) in which no time for payment is
that it is antedated or postdated, or that it
expressed.
bears date on a Sunday.
14. Where a bill is not payable on Computation
(2) Where a bill is accepted or indorsed
demand, the day on which it falls due is oftlmeof
when it is overdue, it shall, as regards the payment.
determined as follows :—
acceptor who so accepts, or any indorser
who so indorses it, be deemed a bill payable (1) Three days, called days of grace, are,
on demand. in every case where the bill itself
does not otherwise provide, added
Bill payable at 11. (1) A bill is payable at a to the time of payment as fixed by
a future time. determinable future time within the meaning the bill, and the bill is due and
of this Ordinance which is expressed to be payable on the last day of grace :
payable—
* Provided that—
(a) at a fixed period after date or sight ;
(a) when the last day of grace falls
on a day appointed to be a
(b) on or at a fixed period after the
public holiday by or under
occurrence of a specified event
any law for the time being in
which is certain to happen, though
force, the bill is, except in the
the time of happening may be
case hereinafter provided for,
uncertain.
due and payable on the
preceding business day ;
(2) An instrument expressed to be
(b) when the last day of grace is a
payable on a contingency is not a bill, and
bank holiday, or when the last
the happening of the event does not cure the
day of grace is a Sunday and
defect.
the second day of grace is a
bank holiday, the bill is due
Omission of 12. Where a bill expressed to be payable
and payable on the succeeding
date in bill at a fixed period after date is issued
payable after business day.
undated, or where the acceptance of a bill
date, or
acceptance payable at a fixed period after sight is (2) Where a bill is payable at a fixed
after sight. undated, any holder may insert therein the period after date, after sight, or
true date of issue or acceptance, and the bill after the happening of a specified
shall be payable accordingly : event, the time of payment is
* The changes made to the proviso to section 14 (1) have been necessitated by the provisions of section 3 of the
Holidays Act (No. 29 of 1971) — reproduced in this Edition as Chapter 364 — which materially differs from the
now repealed Holidays Ordinance. No. 1 of 1928, reproduced as Chapter 135 in Volume III of the 1938 Edition of
the Legislative Enactments.
IV/164
