Cap.92] BILLS OF EXCHANGE
NEGOTIATION OF BILLS (4) Where, in a bill payable to order, the
payee or indorsee is wrongly
Negotiation 31. (1) A bill is negotiated when it is designated, or his name is misspelt,
defined, transferred from one person to another in he may indorse the bill as therein
such a manner as to constitute the transferee described, adding if he think fit,
the holder of the bill. his proper signature.
(2) A bill payable to bearer is negotiated
(5) Where there are two or more
by delivery.
indorsements on a bill, each
indorsement is deemed to have been
(3) A bill payable to order is negotiated
made in the order in which it
by the indorsement of the holder completed
appears on the bill until the
by delivery.
contrary is proved.
(4) Where the holder of a bill payable to
(6) An indorsement may be made in
his order transfers it for value without
blank or special. It may also
indorsing it, the transfer gives the transferee
contain terms making it restrictive.
such title as the transferor had in the bill
and the transferee in addition acquires the
33. Where a bill purports to be indorsed Conditional
right to have the indorsement of the
conditionally the condition may be indorsement.
transferor.
disregarded by the payer, and payment to
(5) Where any person is under obligation the indorsee is valid whether the condition
to indorse a bill in a representative capacity, has been fulfilled or not.
he may indorse the bill in such terms as to
34. (1) An indorsement in blank indorsement in
negative personal liability.
specifies no indorsee, and a bill so indorsed blank-
Requisites of a 32. An indorsement in order to operate becomes payable to bearer.
valid as a negotiation must comply with the
indorsement, r f o ,, l low • ing con , d • it . i ons, namel , y :— (2) A special indorsement specifies the
person to whom, or to whose order, the bill
(1) It must be written on the bill itself is to be payable.
and be signed by the indorser. The *
(3) The provisions of this Ordinance
simple signature of the indorser on
relating to a payee apply with the necessary
the bill, without additional words,
modifications to an indorsee under a special
is sufficient.
indorsement.
An indorsement written on an allonge, or
(4) When a bill has been indorsed in
on a " copy " of a bill issued or
blank, any holder may convert the blank
negotiated in a country where
indorsement into a special indorsement by
" copies " are recognized, is deemed
writing above the indorsees signature a
to be written on the bill itself,
direction to pay the bill to or to the order of
himself or some other person.
(2) It must be an indorsement of the
entire bill. A partial indorsement, 35. (1) An indorsement is restrictive Restrictive
that is to say, an indorsement which which prohibits the further negotiation of indorsement,
purports to transfer to the indorsee the bill, or which expresses that it is a mere
a part only of the amount payable, authority to deal with the bill as thereby
or which purports to transfer the directed and not a transfer of the ownership
bill to two or more indorsees thereof, as, for example, if a bill be [§3,30 of
severally, does not operate as a endorsed— 1961.]
negotiation of the bill.
(3) Where a bill is payable to the order of " Pay D only " ;
two or more payees or indorsees
who are not partners all must or
indorse, unless the one indorsing
has authority to indorse for the others. " Pay D for the account of X " ;
IV/168
BILLS OF EXCHANGE [Cap.92
entitled to enforce payment of the bill
or against any intervening party to whom he
was previously liable.
"Pay D or order for
coilection ". 38. The rights and powers of the holder Rights of the
(2) A restrictive indorsement gives the of a bill are as follows :— holder-
indorsee the right to receive payment of the
(a) he may sue on the bill in his own
bill and to sue any party thereto that his
name;
indorser could have sued, but gives him no
power to transfer his rights as indorsee (b) where he is a holder in due course,
unless it expressly authorize him to do so. he holds the bill free from any
defect of title of prior parties, as
(3) Where a restrictive indorsement
well as from mere personal defences
authorizes further transfer, all subsequent
available to prior parties among
indorsees take the bill with the same rights
themselves, and may enforce
and subject to the same liabilities as the first
payment against all parties liable on
indorsee under the restrictive indorsement.
the bill;
How long bill 36. (!) Where a bill is negotiable in its (c) where his title is defective—
continues origin it continues to be negotiable until it
negotiable.
has been— (i) if he negotiates the bill to a
holder in due course, that
(a) restrictively indorsed, or
holder obtains a good and
complete title to the bill, and
(b) discharged by payment or otherwise,
(ii) if he obtains payment of the
(2) Where an overdue bill is negotiated, it
bill, the person who pays him
can only be negotiated subject to any defect
in due course gets a valid
of title affecting it at its maturity, and
discharge for the bill.
thenceforward no person who takes it can
acquire or give a better title than that which
GENERAL DUTIES OF THE HOLDER
the person from whom he took it had.
39. (1) Where a bill is payable after When
(3) A bill payable on demand' is deemed sight, presentment for acceptance is presentment
to be overdue within the meaning and for for acceptance
necessary in order to fix the maturity of the
is necessary.
the purposes of this section, when it appears
instrument.
on the face of it to have been in circulation
for an unreasonable length of time. What is (2) Where a bill expressly stipulates that
an unreasonable length of time, for this it shall be presented for acceptance, or
purpose is a question of fact. where a, bill is drawn payable elsewhere than
at the residence or place of business of the
(4) Except where an indorsement bears
drawee, it must be presented for acceptance
date after the maturity of the bill, every
before it can be presented for payment.
negotiation is prima facie deemed to have
been effected before the bill was overdue. (3) In no other case is presentment for
acceptance necessary in order to render
(5) Where a bill which is not overdue has
liable any party to the bill.
been dishonoured, any person who takes it
with notice of the dishonour takes it subject (4) Where the holder of a bill, drawn
to any defect of title attaching thereto at the payable elsewhere than at the place of
time of dishonour, but nothing in this business or residence of the drawee, has not
subsection shall affect the rights of a holder time, with the exercise of reasonable
in due course. diligence, to present the bill for acceptance
before presenting it for payment on the day
Negotiation of 37. Where a bill is negotiated back to that it falls due, the delay caused by
bill to party the drawer, or to a prior indorser, or to the presenting the bill for acceptance before
already liable
acceptor, such party may, subject to the presenting it for payment is excused, and
thereon.
provisions of this Ordinance, reissue and does not discharge the drawer and
further negotiate the bill, but he is not indorsers.
IV/169
Cap.92] BILLS OF EXCHANGE
Time for .40. (I) Subject to the provisions of this person or a person not having
presenting bill Ordinance, when a bill payable after sight is capacity to contract by bill;
payable after
negotiated, the holder must either present it
sight.
(b) where, after the exercise of
for acceptance or negotiate it within a
reasonable diligence, such
reasonable time.
presentment cannot be effected ;
(2) If he do not do so, the drawer and all
(c) where, although the presentment has
indorsers prior to that holder are
been irregular, acceptance has been
discharged.
refused on some other ground.
(3) In determining what is a reasonable
(3) The fact that the holder has reason to
time within the meaning of this section,
believe that the bill, on presentment, will be
regard shall be had to the nature of the bill,
dishonoured does not excuse presentment.
the usage of the trade with respect to similar
bills, and the facts of the particular case.
42. (1) When a bill is duly presented for Non-
acceptance, and is not accepted within the acceptance
Rules 41. (1) A bill is duly presented for after
regarding acceptance which is presented in accordance customary time, the person presenting it customary
presentment with the following rules;— must treat it as dishonoured by non- time.
for acceptance,
acceptance. If he do not, the holder shall
and excuses for
non-presentment. (a) the presentment must be made by or lose his right of recourse against the drawer
on behalf of the holder to the and indorsers.
drawee or to some person
authorized to accept or refuse (2) Where the day on which a bill should
acceptance on his behalf at a be accepted is a bank holiday, the bill shall
reasonable hour on a business day be accepted on the succeeding business day.
and before the bit! is overdue ;
43. (1) A bill is dishonoured by Dishonour by
(b) where a bill is addressed to two or non-acceptance— non-acceptance
more drawees, who are not and its
consequences.
partners, presentment must be (a) when it is duly presented for
made to them all, unless one has acceptance, and such an acceptance
authority to accept for all, then as is prescribed by this Ordinance is
presentment may be made to him refused or cannot be obtained ; or
only;
(b) when presentment for acceptance is
(c) where the drawee is dead excused and the bill is not accepted.
presentment may be made to his
personal representative; (2) Subject to the provisions of this
Ordinance, when a bill is dishonoured by
(d) where the drawee is insolvent or
non-acceptance, an immediate right of
bankrupt, presentment may be
recourse against the drawer and indorsers
made to him or to his assignee or
accrues to the holder, and no presentment
trustee;
for payment is necessary,
(e) where authorized by agreement or
usage, a presentment through the 44. (1) The holder of a bill may refuse Duties as to
post office is sufficient; to take a qualified acceptance, and if he qualified
acceptances.
does not obtain an unqualified acceptance
(f) where the day on which a bill should
may treat the bill as dishonoured by
be presented is a bank holiday, the
non-acceptance.
bill shall be presented on the
succeeding business day. * (2) Where a qualified acceptance is taken,
and the drawer or an indorser has not
(2) Presentment in accordance with these
expressly or impliedly authorized the holder
rules is excused and a bill may be treated as
to take a qualified acceptance, or does not
dishonoured by non-acceptance—
subsequently assent thereto, such drawer or
- (ff) where the drawee is dead, insolvent, indorser is discharged from his liability on
or bankrupt, or is a fictitious the bill.
IV/170
