Cap. 92] BILLS OF EXCHANGE
(2) An instrument in the form of a note (2) Presentment for payment is necessary
payable to maker's order is not a note in order to render the indorser of a note
within the meaning of this section, unless liable.
and until it is indorsed by the maker.
(3) Where a note is in the body of it made
(3) A note is not invalid by reason only
payable at a particular place, presentment at
that it contains also a pledge of collateral
that place is necessary in order to render an
security with authority to sell or dispose
indorser liable; but when a place of
thereof.
payment is indicated by way of
memorandum only, presentment at that
(4) A note which is, or on the face of it
place is sufficient to render the indorser
purports to be, both made and payable
liable, but a presentment to the maker
within Sri Lanka is an inland note. Any
elsewhere, if sufficient in other respects,
other note is a foreign note.
shall also suffice.
Delivery 86. A promissory note is inchoate and
necessary. incomplete until delivery thereof to the
90. The maker of a promissory note by Liability of
payee or bearer.
making it— maker-
Joint and 87. (1) A promissory note may be made (a) engages that he will pay it according
several notes. by two or more makers, and they may be to its tenor;
liable thereon jointly, or jointly and
severally, according to its tenor. (b) is precluded from denying to a holder
in due course the existence of the
(2) Where a note runs " I promise to payee and his then capacity to
pay " and is signed by two or more persons, indorse.
it is deemed to be their joint and several
note.
91. (1) Subject to the provisions in this Application of
Part. and except as by this section provided, part II to
Note payable 88. (1) Where a note payable on .
the provisions of this Ordinance relating to notes
on demand. demand has been indorsed, it must be
bills of exchange apply, with the necessary
presented for payment within a reasonable
modifications, to promissory notes.
time of the indorsement. If it be not so
presented the indorser is discharged.
(2) In applying those provisions the
(2) In determining what is a reasonable maker of a note shall be deemed to
time, regard shall be had to the nature of correspond with the acceptor of a bill, and
the instrument, the usage of trade, and the the first indorser of a note shall be deemed
facts of the particular case. to correspond with the drawer of an
accepted bill payable to drawer's order.
(3) Where a note payable on demand is
negotiated, it is not deemed to be overdue,.
(3) The following provisions as to bills do
for the purpose of affecting the holder with
not apply to notes, namely, provisions
defects of title of which he had no notice, by
relating to—
reason that it appears that a reasonable time
for presenting it for payment has elapsed
(a) presentment for acceptance;
since its issue.
(b) acceptance;
Presentment of 89. (1) Where a promissory note is in
note for the body of it made payable at a particular •(c) acceptance supra protest;
payment to
place, it must be presented for payment at
render maker
liable. that place in order to render the maker (d) bills in a set.
liable. In any other case, presentment for
payment is not necessary in order to render (4) Where a foreign note is dishonoured,
the maker liable. protest thereof is unnecessary.
IV/182
BILLS OF EXCHANGE [Cap. 92
PART V 96. Where a dishonoured bill or note is Protest when
authorized or required to be protested, and notary not
the services of a notary cannot be obtained accessible.
SUPPLEMENTARY
at the place where the bill is dishonoured,
any householder or substantial resident of -
Good faith. 92. A thing is deemed to be done in the place may, in the presence of two
good faith within the meaning of this witnesses, give a certificate, signed by them,
Ordinance, where it is in fact done honestly, attesting the dishonour of the bill, and the
whether it is done negligently or not. certificate shall in all respects operate as if it
were a formal protest of the bill.
Signature. 93. (1) Where, by this Ordinance, any The form given in the Schedule to this
instrument or writing is required to be
Ordinance may be used with necessary
signed by any person, it is not necessary that
modifications, and if used shall be sufficient.
he should sign it with his own hand, but it is
sufficient if his signature is written thereon
by some other person by or under his
97. The provisions of this Ordinance as Dividend
authority.
to crossed cheques shall apply to a warrant warrants may
be crossed.
for payment of dividend.
(2) In the case of a corporation, where,
by this Ordinance, any instrument or
writing is required to be signed, it is
98. (1) The rules in insolvency or Savings.
sufficient if the instrument or writing be
bankruptcy relating to bills of exchange,
sealed with the corporate seal.
promissory notes, and cheques shall
continue to apply thereto, notwithstanding
But nothing in this section shall be
anything in this Ordinance contained.
construed as requiring the bill or note of a
corporation to be under seal.
(2) The rules of the common law of
England, including the law merchant,
Compulation 94. Where, by this Ordinance, the time save in so far as they are inconsistent with.
of time. limited for doing any act or thing is less the express provisions of this Ordinance, or
than three days, in reckoning time, non- any other enactment for the time being in
business days are excluded. force, shall apply to bills of exchange, '
promissory notes, and cheques.
" Non-business days " for the purposes of
this Ordinance mean— (3) Nothing in this Ordinance or in any
repeal effected thereby shall affect—
(a) a bank holiday;
(a) any law or enactment for the time
(b) a day appointed to be a public being in force relating to stamps or
holiday by or under any law for the the revenue;
time being in force.
(b) the provisions of the Companies
Any other day is a business day.
Ordinance,* or enactments
amending it, or any enactment
relating to joint stock banks or
When noting 95. For the purposes of this Ordinance, companies;
equivalent to where a bill or note is required to be
protest. (c) the provisions relating to promissory
protested within a specified time or before
notes contained in the Money
some further proceeding is taken, it is
Lending Ordinance;
sufficient that the bill has been noted for
protest before the expiration of the specified
time or the taking of the proceeding; and (d) the validity of any usage relating to
the formal protest may be extended at any dividend warrants or the
time thereafter as of the date of the noting. indorsement thereof.
* Repealed and replaced by the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982.
IV/183
