BILLS OF EXCHANGE [Cap.92
business, it is not incumbent on the banker 64, (1) Where a bill or acceptance is Alteration of
to show that the indorsement of the payee materially altered without the assent of all bill.
or any subsequent indorsement was made parties liable on the bill, the bill is avoided',
by or under the authority of the person except as against a party who has himself
whose indorsement it purports to be, and made, authorized, or assented to the
the banker is deemed to have paid the bill in alteration, and subsequent indorsers;
due course, although such indorsement has
been forged or made without authority. Provided that where a bill has been
materially altered, but the alteration is not
[§2.25 of (2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall apparent, and the bill is in the hands of a
1957.] apply to a banker's draft as if that draft
holder in due course, such holder may avail
were a bill referred to in that subsection.
himself of the bill as if it had not been
altered; and may enforce payment of it
In this subsection " banker's draft" has
according to its original tenor.
the same meaning as in section 84.
(2) In particular the following alterations
Acceptor the 61. When the acceptor of a bill is or are material, namely, any alteration of the
holder at becomes the holder of it at or after its
date, the sum payable, the time of payment,
maturity.
maturity, in his own right, the bill is
the place of payment, and, where a bill has
discharged.
been accepted generally, the addition of a
place of payment without the acceptor's
Express 62. (1) When the holder of a bill at assent.
waiver or or after its maturity absolutely and
renunciation.
unconditionally renounces his rights against ACCEPTANCE AND PAYMENT FOR HONOUR
the acceptor the bill is discharged.
65. (1) Where a bill of exchange has Acceptance for
been protested for dishonour by non- honour supra'
The renunciation must be in writing,
acceptance, or protested for better security, protest.
unless the bill is delivered up to the
and is not overdue, any person, not being a
acceptor.
party already liable thereon, may, with the
(2) The liabilities of any party to a bill consent of the holder, intervene and accept
may in like manner be renounced by the the bill supra protest, for the honour of any
holder before, at, or after its maturity, but party liable thereon, or for the honour of
nothing in this section shall affect the rights the person for whose account the bill is
of a holder in due course without notice of drawn.
the renunciation.
(2) A bill may be accepted for honour for
Cancellation. 63. (1) Where a bill is intentionally part only of the sum for which it is drawn.
cancelled by the holder or his agent, and the
cancellation is apparent thereon, the bill is
(3) An acceptance for honour supra
discharged.
protest in order to be valid must—
(2) In like manner any party liable on a
(a) be written on the bill, and indicate
bill may be discharged by the intentional
that it is an acceptance for honour;
cancellation of his signature by the holder
or his agent. In such case any indorser who
(b) be signed by the acceptor for honour.
would have had a right of recourse against
the party whose signature is cancelled is also
(4) Where an acceptance for honour does
discharged.
not expressly state for whose honour it is
(3) A cancellation made unintentionally, made, it is deemed to be an acceptance for
or under a mistake, or without the authority the honour of the drawer.
of the holder, is inoperative; but where a
bill or any signature thereon appears to (5) Where a bill payable after sight is
have been cancelled, the burden of proof lies accepted for honour, its maturity is
on the party who alleges that the calculated from the date of the noting for
cancellation was made unintentionally, or non-acceptance, and not from the date of
under a mistake, or without authority. the acceptance for honour,
IV/177
Cap. 92] BILLS OF EXCHANGE
Liability of 66. (1) The acceptor for honour of a bill (3) Payment for honour supra protest, in
acceptor for by accepting it engages that he will, on due order to operate as such and not as a mere
honour.
presentment, pay the bill according to the voluntary payment, must be attested by a
tenor of his acceptance, if it is not paid by notarial act of honour which may be
the drawee, provided it has been duly appended to the protest or form an
presented for payment, and protested for extension of it.
non-payment, and that he receives notice of
these facts- (4) The notarial act of honour must be
founded on a declaration made by the payer
(2) The acceptor for honour is liable to for honour, or his agent in that behalf,
the holder and to all parties to the bill declaring his intention to pay the bill for
subsequent to the party for whose honour honour, and for whose honour he pays.
he has accepted.
(5) Where a bill has been paid for
honour, all parties subsequent to the party
Presentment to 67. (1) Where a dishonoured bill has for whose honour it is paid are discharged,
acceptor for been accepted for honour supra protest, or but the payer for honour is subrogated for,
honour.
contains a reference in case of need, it must and succeeds to both the rights and duties
be protested for non-payment before it is of, the holder as regards the party for whose
presented for payment to the acceptor for honour he pays, and all parties liable to that
honour, or referee in case of need. party.
(6) The payer for honour on paying to
(2) Where the address of the acceptor for
the holder the amount of the bill and the
honour is in the same place where the bill is
notarial expenses incidental to its dishonour
protested for non-payment, the bill must be
is entitled to receive both the bill itself and
presented to him not later than the day
the protest. If the holder do not on demand
following its maturity; "and where the
deliver them up he shall be liable to the
address of the acceptor for honour is in
payer for honour in damages.
some place other than the place where it was
protested for non-payment, the bill must be
(7) Where the holder of a bill refuses to
forwarded not later than the day following
receive payment supra protest he shall lose
its maturity for presentment to him.
his right of recourse against any party who
would have been discharged by such
(3) Delay in presentment or non-
payment.
presentment is excused by any circumstance
which would excuse delay in presentment
for payment or . non-presentment for
LOST INSTRUMENTS
payment.
69. Where a bill has been lost before it is Holder's right
(4) When a bill of exchange is
overdue, the person who was the holder of it to duplicate of
dishonoured by the acceptor for honour it , , . , . • r
may apply to the drawer to give him lost bill.
must be protested for non-payment by him.
another bill of the same tenor, giving
security to the drawer if required to
Payment for 68. (1) Where a bill has been protested indemnify him against all persons whatever
Honour supra for non-payment, any person may intervene in case the bill alleged to have been lost
protest.
and pay it supra protest for the honour of shall be found again.
any party liable thereon, or for the honour
of the person for whose account the bill is If the drawer on request as aforesaid
drawn. refuses to give such duplicate bill, he may be
compelled to do so.
(2) Where two or more persons offer to
pay a bill.for the honour of different parties, 70. In any action or proceeding upon a Action on lost
the person whose payment will discharge bill, the court or a judge may order that the bi11-
most parties to the bill shall have the loss of the instrument shall not be set up,
preference. provided an indemnity be given to the
IV/178
