Cap.92] BILLS OF EXCHANGE
otherwise provides, interest runs from the Provided that—
date of the bill, and if the bill is undated,
(i) where the holder in good faith and by
from the issue thereof.
mistake inserts a wrong date, and
(4) Where. a bill is expressed to be
(ii) in every case where a wrong date is
payable with interest, unless the instrument
inserted, if the bill subsequently comes into
otherwise provides, the interest shall be at
the hands of a holder in due course the bill
the rate of mneper centum per annum :
shall not be avoided thereby, but shall
operate and be payable as if the date so
Provided that the amount recoverable on
inserted had been the true date.
account of interest or arrears of interest
shall in no case exceed the principal.
13. (1) Where a bill or an acceptance Presumption as
Bill payable on 10. (1) A bill is payable on demand— or any , i , n , dors , emen , t on a bill , is dated, , th , e t t o r u e d a d t a e t e b . eing
demand. date shall, unless the contrary be proved, be
(a) which is expressed to be payable on deemed to be the true date of the drawing,
demand, or at sight, or on acceptance, or indorsement, as the case may
presentation ; or be.
(2) A bill is not invalid by reason only
(b) in which no time for payment is
that it is antedated or postdated, or that it
expressed.
bears date on a Sunday.
14. Where a bill is not payable on Computation
(2) Where a bill is accepted or indorsed
demand, the day on which it falls due is oftlmeof
when it is overdue, it shall, as regards the payment.
determined as follows :—
acceptor who so accepts, or any indorser
who so indorses it, be deemed a bill payable (1) Three days, called days of grace, are,
on demand. in every case where the bill itself
does not otherwise provide, added
Bill payable at 11. (1) A bill is payable at a to the time of payment as fixed by
a future time. determinable future time within the meaning the bill, and the bill is due and
of this Ordinance which is expressed to be payable on the last day of grace :
payable—
* Provided that—
(a) at a fixed period after date or sight ;
(a) when the last day of grace falls
on a day appointed to be a
(b) on or at a fixed period after the
public holiday by or under
occurrence of a specified event
any law for the time being in
which is certain to happen, though
force, the bill is, except in the
the time of happening may be
case hereinafter provided for,
uncertain.
due and payable on the
preceding business day ;
(2) An instrument expressed to be
(b) when the last day of grace is a
payable on a contingency is not a bill, and
bank holiday, or when the last
the happening of the event does not cure the
day of grace is a Sunday and
defect.
the second day of grace is a
bank holiday, the bill is due
Omission of 12. Where a bill expressed to be payable
and payable on the succeeding
date in bill at a fixed period after date is issued
payable after business day.
undated, or where the acceptance of a bill
date, or
acceptance payable at a fixed period after sight is (2) Where a bill is payable at a fixed
after sight. undated, any holder may insert therein the period after date, after sight, or
true date of issue or acceptance, and the bill after the happening of a specified
shall be payable accordingly : event, the time of payment is
* The changes made to the proviso to section 14 (1) have been necessitated by the provisions of section 3 of the
Holidays Act (No. 29 of 1971) — reproduced in this Edition as Chapter 364 — which materially differs from the
now repealed Holidays Ordinance. No. 1 of 1928, reproduced as Chapter 135 in Volume III of the 1938 Edition of
the Legislative Enactments.
IV/164
BILLS OF EX CHANGE [Cap.92
determined by excluding the day (b) when it is overdue, or after it has
from which the time is to begin to been dishonoured by a previous
run and by including the day of refusal to accept, or by
payment. non-payment ;
(3) Where a bill is payable at a fixed (c) when a bill payable after sight is
period after sight, the time begins to dishonoured by non-acceptance,
run from the date of the acceptance and the drawee subsequently
if the bill be accepted, and from the accepts it, the holder, in the absence
date of noting or protest if the bill of any different agreement, is
be noted or protested for non- entitled to have the bill accepted as
acceptance, or for non-delivery. of the date of first presentment to
the drawee for acceptance.
[§ 2, 30 of (4) The term " Shoes ** " u>rrfib *' or
1961.] " month " in a bill means calendar 19. (1) An acceptance is either— General and
month. qualified
(a) general, or acceptances.
Case of need. 15. The drawer of a bill and any
indorser may .insert therein the name of a (b) qualified.
person to whom the holder may resort in
(2) A general acceptance assents without
case of need, that is to say, in case the bill is
qualification to the order of the drawer. A
dishonoured by non-acceptance or non-
qualified acceptance in express terms varies
payment. Such person is called the referee in
the effect of the bill as drawn.
case of need. It is in the option of the holder
to resort to the referee in case of need or
(3) In particular an acceptance is
not, as he may think fit.
qualified which is—
Special 16. The drawer of a 'bill» and any (a) conditional, that is to say, which
stipulations by indorser, may insert therein an express makes payment by the acceptor
drawer or
indorser stipulation— dependent on the fulfilment of a
restricting condition therein stated ;
(a) negativing or limiting his own
liability.
liability to the holder ; (b) partial, that is to say, an acceptance
to pay part only of the amount for
'(b) waiving as regards himself some or
which the bill is drawn ;
all of the holder's duties.
(c) local, that is to say, an acceptance to
Definition and 17. (1) The acceptance of a bill is the pay only at a particular specified
requisites of signification by the drawee of his assent to place ;
acceptance.
the order of the drawer.
(d) qualified as to time ;
(2) An acceptance is invalid unless it
(e) the acceptance of some one or more
complies with the following conditions,
of the drawees, but not of all.
namely :—
(4) An acceptance to pay at a particular
(a) It must be written on the bill and be
place is a general acceptance, unless it
signed by the drawee. The mere
expressly states that the bill is to be paid
signature of the drawee without
there only, and not elsewhere.
additional words is sufficient.
20. (1) Where a simple signature on a inchoate
(b) It must not express that the drawee blank stamped paper is delivered by the instruments o
, , . , . , . . blank
will perform his promise by any signer in order that it may be converted into signatures
other means than the payment of a bill, it operates as a prima facie authority
money. to fill it up as a complete bill for any
amount the stamp will cover, using the
Time for 18. A bill may be accepted— signature for that of the drawer, or the
acceptance. acceptor, or an indorser ; and, in like
(a) before it has been signed by the manner, when a bill is wanting in any
drawer, or while otherwise incomplete ; material particular, the person in
IV/165
BILLS OF EXCHANGE [Cap.92
possession of it has a prima facie authority CAPACITY AND AUTHORITY OF PARTIES
to fill up the omission in any way he thinks
fit. 22. (I) Capacity to incur liability as a Capacity of
party to a bill is coextensive with capacity to Parties.
(2) In order that any such instrument contract.
when completed may be enforceable against
any person who beame a party thereto prior (2) Where such capacity is to be
to its completion, it must be filled up within determined by the law of Sri Lanka, it shall
a reasonable time, and strictly in accordance be determined by Roman-Dutch law as
with the authority given. Reasonable time administered in Sri Lanka subject to the
for this purpose is a question of fact; provisions of any enactment affecting that
law.
Provided that if any such instrument after
(3) Provided that nothing in this section
completion is negotiated to a holder in due
shall enable a corporation to make itself
course, it shall be valid and effectual for all
liable as drawer, acceptor, or indorser of a
purposes in his hands, and he may enforce it
bill, unless it is competent to it so to do
as if it had been filled up within a
under the law for the time being in force
reasonable time and strictly in accordance
relating to corporations.
with the authority given.
(4) Where a bill is drawn or indorsed by
Delivery to 21. (1) Every contract on a bill,
complete whether it be the drawer's, the acceptor's, or a minor or corporation having no capacity
contract. or power to incur liability on a bill, the
an indorser's, is incomplete and revocable
drawing or indorsement entitles the holder
until delivery of the instrument in order to
to receive payment of the bill, and to
give effect thereto ;
enforce it against any other party thereto.
Provided that where an acceptance is
written on a bill. and the drawee gives 23. No person is liable as drawer. Signature
notice to or according to the directions of indorser, or acceptor of a bill who has not esential to
, .,' . liability.
the person entitled to the bill that he has signed it as such :
accepted it, the acceptance then becomes
Provided that—
complete and irrevocable.
(a) where a person signs a bill in a trade
(2) As between immediate parties, and
or assumed name, he is liable
as. regards a remote party other than a
thereon as if he had signed it in his
holder in due course, the delivery—
own name ;
(a) in order to be effectual must be
(b) the signature of the name of a firm is
made either by or under the
equivalent to the signature by the
authority of the party drawing,
person so signing of the names of
accepting, or indorsing, as the case
all persons liable as partners in that
may be ;
firm.
(b) may be shown to have been
24. Subject to the provisions of this Forged or
conditional or for a special purpose
Ordinance, where a signature on a bill is "unauthorized"
only, and not for the purpose of
forged or placed thereon without the signature
transferring the property in the bill.
authority of the person whose signature it
purports to be, the forged or unauthorized
But if the bill be in the hands of a holder
signature is wholly inoperative, and no right
in due course a valid delivery of the bill by
to retain the bill or to give a discharge
all parties prior to him so as to make them
therefor or to enforce payment thereof
liable to him is conclusively presumed.
against any party thereto can be acquired
(3) Where a bill is no longer in the through or under that signature, unless the
possession of a party who has signed it as party against whom it is sought to retain or
drawer, acceptor, or indorser, a valid and enforce payment of the bill is precluded
unconditional delivery by him is presumed from setting up the forgery or want of
until the contrary is proved. authority :
IV/166
BILLS OF EXCHANGE [Cap.92
Provided that nothing in this section shall receiving value therefor, and for the purpose
affect the ratification of an unauthorized of lending his name to some other person.
signature not amounting to a forgery.
(2) An accommodation party is liable on
Procuration 25. A signature by procuration operates the bill to a holder for value; and it is
signatures. as notice that the agent has but a limited
immaterial whether, when such holder took
authority to sign, and the principal is only
the bill, he knew such party to be an
bound by such signature if the agent in so
accommodation party or not.
signing was acting within the actual limits of
his authority.
29. (1) A holder in due course is a Holder in due
Persons signing 26. (1) Where a person signs a bill as holder who has taken a bill, complete and course-
as agent or in drawer, indorser, or acceptor, and adds regular on the face of it, under the following
representative conditions, namely:—
words to his signature, indicating that he
capacity.
signs for or on behalf of a principal, or in a
(a) that he became the holder of it before
representative character, he is not personally
it was overdue, and without notice
liable thereon; but the mere addition to his
that it had been previously
signature of words describing him as an
dishonoured, if such was the fact;
agent, or as filling a representative
character, does not exempt him from
(b) that he took the bill in good faith and
personal liability.
for value, and that at the time the
bill was negotiated to him he had
(2) In determining whether a signature on
no notice of any defect in the title
a bill is that of the principal or that of the
of the person who negotiated it,
agent by whose hand it is written, the
construction most favourable to the validity (2) In particular the title of a person who
of the instrument shall be adopted.
negotiates a bill is defective within the
meaning of this Ordinance when he
THE CONSIDERATION FOR A BILL obtained the bill, or the acceptance thereof,
by fraud, duress, or force and fear, or other
Value defined. 27. (1) Valuable consideration for a bill
unlawful means, or for an illegal
may be constituted by—
consideration, or when he negotiates it in
breach of faith, or under such circumstances
(a) any consideration which by the law of
as amount to a fraud.
England is sufficient to support a
simple contract; (3) A holder (whether for value or not)
who derives his title to a bill through a
(b) an antecedent debt or liability. Such a
holder in due course, and who is not himself
debt or liability is deemed valuable
a party to any fraud or illegality affecting it,
consideration whether the bill is
has all the rights of that holder in due
payable on demand or at a future
course as regards the acceptor and all
time.
parties to the bill prior to that holder.
(2) Where value has at any time been
30. (1) Every party whose signature Presumption of
given for a bill, the holder is deemed to be a
appears on a bill is prima facie deemed to value and good
holder for value as regards the acceptor and
have become a party thereto for value. faith
all parties to the bill who became parties
prior to such time. (2) Every holder of a bill is prima facie
deemed to be a holder in due course ; but if
(3) Where the holder of a bill has a lien in an action on a bill it is admitted or
on it, arising either from contract or by proved that the acceptance, issue, or
implication of law, he is deemed to be a* subsequent negotiation of the bill is affected
holder for value to the extent of the sum for with fraud, duress, or force and fear, or
which he has a lien. illegality, the burden of proof is shifted,
unless and until the holder proves that,
Accommodation 28. (1) An accommodation party to a subsequent to the alleged fraud or illegality,
bill or party, bill is a person who has signed a bill asvalue has in good faith been given for the
drawer, acceptor, or indorser, without bill.
IV/167
Cap.92] BILLS OF EXCHANGE
NEGOTIATION OF BILLS (4) Where, in a bill payable to order, the
payee or indorsee is wrongly
Negotiation 31. (1) A bill is negotiated when it is designated, or his name is misspelt,
defined, transferred from one person to another in he may indorse the bill as therein
such a manner as to constitute the transferee described, adding if he think fit,
the holder of the bill. his proper signature.
(2) A bill payable to bearer is negotiated
(5) Where there are two or more
by delivery.
indorsements on a bill, each
indorsement is deemed to have been
(3) A bill payable to order is negotiated
made in the order in which it
by the indorsement of the holder completed
appears on the bill until the
by delivery.
contrary is proved.
(4) Where the holder of a bill payable to
(6) An indorsement may be made in
his order transfers it for value without
blank or special. It may also
indorsing it, the transfer gives the transferee
contain terms making it restrictive.
such title as the transferor had in the bill
and the transferee in addition acquires the
33. Where a bill purports to be indorsed Conditional
right to have the indorsement of the
conditionally the condition may be indorsement.
transferor.
disregarded by the payer, and payment to
(5) Where any person is under obligation the indorsee is valid whether the condition
to indorse a bill in a representative capacity, has been fulfilled or not.
he may indorse the bill in such terms as to
34. (1) An indorsement in blank indorsement in
negative personal liability.
specifies no indorsee, and a bill so indorsed blank-
Requisites of a 32. An indorsement in order to operate becomes payable to bearer.
valid as a negotiation must comply with the
indorsement, r f o ,, l low • ing con , d • it . i ons, namel , y :— (2) A special indorsement specifies the
person to whom, or to whose order, the bill
(1) It must be written on the bill itself is to be payable.
and be signed by the indorser. The *
(3) The provisions of this Ordinance
simple signature of the indorser on
relating to a payee apply with the necessary
the bill, without additional words,
modifications to an indorsee under a special
is sufficient.
indorsement.
An indorsement written on an allonge, or
(4) When a bill has been indorsed in
on a " copy " of a bill issued or
blank, any holder may convert the blank
negotiated in a country where
indorsement into a special indorsement by
" copies " are recognized, is deemed
writing above the indorsees signature a
to be written on the bill itself,
direction to pay the bill to or to the order of
himself or some other person.
(2) It must be an indorsement of the
entire bill. A partial indorsement, 35. (1) An indorsement is restrictive Restrictive
that is to say, an indorsement which which prohibits the further negotiation of indorsement,
purports to transfer to the indorsee the bill, or which expresses that it is a mere
a part only of the amount payable, authority to deal with the bill as thereby
or which purports to transfer the directed and not a transfer of the ownership
bill to two or more indorsees thereof, as, for example, if a bill be [§3,30 of
severally, does not operate as a endorsed— 1961.]
negotiation of the bill.
(3) Where a bill is payable to the order of " Pay D only " ;
two or more payees or indorsees
who are not partners all must or
indorse, unless the one indorsing
has authority to indorse for the others. " Pay D for the account of X " ;
IV/168
