BILLS OF EXCHANGE [Cap. 92
(8) Where a bill is lost or destroyed, or is (a) the existence of the drawer, the
wrongly detained from the person entitled genuineness of his signature,
to hold it, protest may be made on a copy and his capacity and authority
or written particulars thereof. to draw the bill;
(9) Protest is dispensed with by any
circumstance which would dispense with (b) in the case of a bill payable to
notice of dishonour. Delay in noting or drawer's order, the then
protesting is excused when the delay is capacity of the drawer to
caused by circumstances beyond the control indorse, but not the
of the holder, and not imputable to his. genuineness or validity of his
default, misconduct, or negligence. When indorsement;
the cause of,delay ceases to operate the bill
must be noted or protested with reasonable (c) in the case of a bill payable to
diligence. the order of a third person,
the existence of the payee and
Duties of 52. (1) When a bill is accepted generally his then capacity to indorse,
holder as presentment for payment is not necessary in but not the genuineness or
regards drawee , , , . . r 1.1
or acceptor, order to render the acceptor liable. validity of his indorsement.
(2) When by the terms of a qualified 55. (1) The drawer of a bill by drawing it— Liability of
acceptance presentment for payment is drawer.
required, the acceptor, in the absence of an
(a) engages that on due presentment it
express stipulation to that effect, is not
shall be accepted and paid
discharged by the omission to present the
according to its tenor, and that if it
bill for payment on the day that it matures.
be dishonoured he will compensate
the holder or any indorser who is
(3) In order to render the acceptor of a
compelled to pay it, provided that
bill liable it is not necessary to protest it, or
the requisite proceedings on
that notice of dishonour should be given to
dishonour be duly taken;
him.
(4) Where the holder of a bill presents it (b) is precluded'from denying to a holder
for payment, he shall exhibit the bill to the in due course the existence of the
person from whom he demands payment, payee and his then capacity to
and when a bill is paid the holder shall indorse.
forthwith deliver it up to the party paying it.
(2) The indorser of a bill, by indorsing it-
LIABILITIES OF PARTIES
(a) engages that on due presentment it
Funds in hands 53. A bill, of itself, does not operate as
shall be accepted and paid
of drawee. an assignment of funds in the hands of the
according to its tenor, and that if it
drawee available for the payment thereof,
be dishonoured he will compensate
and the drawee of a bill who does not accept
the holder or a subsequent indorser
as required by this Ordinance is not liable
who is compelled to pay it,
on the instrument.
provided that the requisite
proceedings on dishonour be duly
Liability of 54. The acceptor of a bill, by accepting
taken; •
acceptor. it-
(1) engages that he will pay it according (b) is precluded from denying to a holder
to the tenor of his acceptance ; in due course the genuineness and
regularity in all respects of the
(2) is precluded from denying to a holder drawer's signature and all previous
in due course— indorsements •
IV/175
Cap. 92] BILLS OF EX CHANGE
(c) is precluded from denying to his 58. (1) Where the holder of a bill Transferor by
immediate or a subsequent indorsee payable to bearer negotiates it by delivery delivery and
-,, . - J - . 1 . ,, , transferee.
that the bill was at the time of his without indorsing it, he is called a
indorsement a valid and subsisting " transferor by delivery ".
bill, and that he had then a good
title thereto. (2) A transferor by delivery is not liable
on the instrument.
Stranger 56. Where a person signs a bill
signing bill otherwise than as drawer or acceptor, he (3) A transferor by delivery who
liable as
thereby incurs the liabilities of an indorser negotiates a bill thereby warrants to his
indorser.
to a holder in due course. immediate transferee being a holder for
value that the bill is what it purports to be,
Measure of 57. Where a bill is dishonoured, the that he has a right to transfer it, and that at
damages measure of damages, which shall be deemed the time of transfer he is not aware of any
against parties
to be liquidated damages, shall be as fact which renders it valueless.
to dishonoured
bill. follows:—
DISCHARGES
(1) The holder may recover from any
party liable on the bill, and the
59. (1) A bill is discharged by payment Payment in
drawer who has been compelled to
pay the bill may recover from the in due course by or on behalf of the drawee due course-
or acceptor.
acceptor, and an indorser who has
been compelled to pay the bill may
recover from the acceptor or from " Payment in due course " means payment
the drawer, or from a prior made at or after the maturity of the bill to
indorser— the holder thereof in good faith and without
notice that his title to the bill is defective.
(a) the amount of the bill;
(2) Subject to the provisions hereinafter
(b) interest thereon from the time
contained, when a bill is paid by the drawer
of presentment for payment if
or an indorser it is not discharged ; but—
the bill is payable on demand,
and from the maturity of the
(a) where a bill payable to, or to the
bill in any other case ;
order of, a third party is paid by the
drawer, the drawer may enforce
(c) the expenses of noting, or, when
protest is necessary, and the payment thereof against the
protest has been extended, the acceptor, but may not re-issue the
expenses of protest. bill;
(2) In the case of a bill which has been (b) where a bill is paid by an indorser, or
dishonoured abroad, in lieu of the where a bill payable to drawer's
above damages, the holder may order is paid by the drawer, the
recover from the drawer, or an party paying it is remitted to his
indorser, and the drawer or an former rights as regards the
indorser who has been compelled to
acceptor or antecedent parties, and
pay the bill may recover from any
he may, if he thinks fit, strike
party liable to him the amount of
out his own and subsequent
the re-exchange with interest
indorsements, and again negotiate
thereon until the time of payment.
the bill.
(3) Where by this Ordinance interest may
(3) Where an accommodation bill is paid
be recovered as damages, such
in due course by the party accommodated
interest may, if justice require it, be
withheld wholly or in part, and the bill is discharged.
where a bill is expressed to be
payable with interest at a given rate, 60. (1) When a bill payable to order on Banker paying
interest as damages may or may not demand is drawn on a banker, and the demand draft
whereon
be given at the same rate as interest banker on whom it is drawn pays the bill in
indorsement is
proper. good faith and in the ordinary course of forged.
IV/176
BILLS OF EXCHANGE [Cap.92
business, it is not incumbent on the banker 64, (1) Where a bill or acceptance is Alteration of
to show that the indorsement of the payee materially altered without the assent of all bill.
or any subsequent indorsement was made parties liable on the bill, the bill is avoided',
by or under the authority of the person except as against a party who has himself
whose indorsement it purports to be, and made, authorized, or assented to the
the banker is deemed to have paid the bill in alteration, and subsequent indorsers;
due course, although such indorsement has
been forged or made without authority. Provided that where a bill has been
materially altered, but the alteration is not
[§2.25 of (2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall apparent, and the bill is in the hands of a
1957.] apply to a banker's draft as if that draft
holder in due course, such holder may avail
were a bill referred to in that subsection.
himself of the bill as if it had not been
altered; and may enforce payment of it
In this subsection " banker's draft" has
according to its original tenor.
the same meaning as in section 84.
(2) In particular the following alterations
Acceptor the 61. When the acceptor of a bill is or are material, namely, any alteration of the
holder at becomes the holder of it at or after its
date, the sum payable, the time of payment,
maturity.
maturity, in his own right, the bill is
the place of payment, and, where a bill has
discharged.
been accepted generally, the addition of a
place of payment without the acceptor's
Express 62. (1) When the holder of a bill at assent.
waiver or or after its maturity absolutely and
renunciation.
unconditionally renounces his rights against ACCEPTANCE AND PAYMENT FOR HONOUR
the acceptor the bill is discharged.
65. (1) Where a bill of exchange has Acceptance for
been protested for dishonour by non- honour supra'
The renunciation must be in writing,
acceptance, or protested for better security, protest.
unless the bill is delivered up to the
and is not overdue, any person, not being a
acceptor.
party already liable thereon, may, with the
(2) The liabilities of any party to a bill consent of the holder, intervene and accept
may in like manner be renounced by the the bill supra protest, for the honour of any
holder before, at, or after its maturity, but party liable thereon, or for the honour of
nothing in this section shall affect the rights the person for whose account the bill is
of a holder in due course without notice of drawn.
the renunciation.
(2) A bill may be accepted for honour for
Cancellation. 63. (1) Where a bill is intentionally part only of the sum for which it is drawn.
cancelled by the holder or his agent, and the
cancellation is apparent thereon, the bill is
(3) An acceptance for honour supra
discharged.
protest in order to be valid must—
(2) In like manner any party liable on a
(a) be written on the bill, and indicate
bill may be discharged by the intentional
that it is an acceptance for honour;
cancellation of his signature by the holder
or his agent. In such case any indorser who
(b) be signed by the acceptor for honour.
would have had a right of recourse against
the party whose signature is cancelled is also
(4) Where an acceptance for honour does
discharged.
not expressly state for whose honour it is
(3) A cancellation made unintentionally, made, it is deemed to be an acceptance for
or under a mistake, or without the authority the honour of the drawer.
of the holder, is inoperative; but where a
bill or any signature thereon appears to (5) Where a bill payable after sight is
have been cancelled, the burden of proof lies accepted for honour, its maturity is
on the party who alleges that the calculated from the date of the noting for
cancellation was made unintentionally, or non-acceptance, and not from the date of
under a mistake, or without authority. the acceptance for honour,
IV/177
