BILLS OF EXCHANGE [Cap.92
account to be debited with the amount, or one or some of several payees. A bill may
{b) a statement of the transaction which also be made payable to the holder of an
gives rise to the bill, is unconditional. office for the time being.
Date, place, (4) A bill is not invalid by reason— (3) Where the payee is a fictitious or non-
and value. existing person the bill may be treated as
(a) that it is not dated ;
payable to bearer.
(b) that it does not specify the value
8. (1) When a 'bill 'contains words What bills are
given, or that any value has been
prohibiting transfer, or indicating an negotiable.
given therefor ;
intention that it should not be transferable,
(c) that it does not specify the place it is valid as between the parties thereto, but
where it is drawn or the place where is not negotiable,
it is payable.
(2) A negotiable bill may be payable
Inland and 4. (1) An inland bill is a bill which is, or either to order or to bearer.
foreign bills. on the face of it purports to be—
(3) A bill is payable to bearer which is
(a) both drawn and payable within Sri expressed to be so payable, or on which the
Lanka,or only or last indorsement is an indorsement
in blank.
(b) drawn within Sri Lanka upon some
(4) A bill is payable to order which is
person resident therein.
expressed to be so payable, or which is
Any other bill is a foreign bill. expressed to be payable to a particular
person, and does not contain words
(2) Unless the contrary appear on the
prohibiting transfer or indicating an
face of the bill the holder may treat it as an
intention that it should not be transferable.
inland bill.
(5) Where a bill, either originally or by
Effect where 5. (1) A bill may be drawn payable to, indorsement, is expressed to be payable to
different or to the order of, the drawer ; or it may be the order of a specified person, and not to
parties to bill
are the same drawn payable to, or to the order of, the him or his order, it is nevertheless payable
person. drawee. to him or his order at his option.
Drawer and (2) Where in a bill drawer and drawee are 9. (1) The sum payable by a bill is a Sum payable.
drawee same the same person, or where the drawee is a sum certain within the meaning of this
person or firm.
fictitious person or a person not having Ordinance, although it is required to be
capacity to contract, the holder may treat paid—
the instrument, at his option, either as a bill
(a) with interest;
of exchange or as a promissory note.
(b) by stated instalments ;
Address to 6. (1) The drawee must be named or
drawee. otherwise indicated in a bill with reasonable
(c) by stated instalments, with a
certainty.
provision that upon default in
payment of any instalment the
(2) A bill may be addressed to two or
whole shall become due ;
more drawees whether they are partners or
not, but an order addressed to two drawees (d) according to an indicated rate of
in the alternative, or to two or more exchange, or according to a rate of
drawees in succession, is not a bill of exchange to be ascertained as
exchange. directed by the bill.
Certainty 7. (1) Where a bill is not payable to (2) Where the sum payable is expressed
required as to bearer, the payee must be named or in words and also in figures, and there is a
payee.
otherwise indicated therein with reasonable discrepancy between the two, the sum
certainty. denoted by the words is the amount
payable.
(2) A bill may be made payable to two
or more payees jointly, or it may be made (3) Where a bill is expressed to be
payable in the alternative to one of two, or payable with interest, unless the instrument
IV/163
Cap.92] BILLS OF EXCHANGE
otherwise provides, interest runs from the Provided that—
date of the bill, and if the bill is undated,
(i) where the holder in good faith and by
from the issue thereof.
mistake inserts a wrong date, and
(4) Where. a bill is expressed to be
(ii) in every case where a wrong date is
payable with interest, unless the instrument
inserted, if the bill subsequently comes into
otherwise provides, the interest shall be at
the hands of a holder in due course the bill
the rate of mneper centum per annum :
shall not be avoided thereby, but shall
operate and be payable as if the date so
Provided that the amount recoverable on
inserted had been the true date.
account of interest or arrears of interest
shall in no case exceed the principal.
13. (1) Where a bill or an acceptance Presumption as
Bill payable on 10. (1) A bill is payable on demand— or any , i , n , dors , emen , t on a bill , is dated, , th , e t t o r u e d a d t a e t e b . eing
demand. date shall, unless the contrary be proved, be
(a) which is expressed to be payable on deemed to be the true date of the drawing,
demand, or at sight, or on acceptance, or indorsement, as the case may
presentation ; or be.
(2) A bill is not invalid by reason only
(b) in which no time for payment is
that it is antedated or postdated, or that it
expressed.
bears date on a Sunday.
14. Where a bill is not payable on Computation
(2) Where a bill is accepted or indorsed
demand, the day on which it falls due is oftlmeof
when it is overdue, it shall, as regards the payment.
determined as follows :—
acceptor who so accepts, or any indorser
who so indorses it, be deemed a bill payable (1) Three days, called days of grace, are,
on demand. in every case where the bill itself
does not otherwise provide, added
Bill payable at 11. (1) A bill is payable at a to the time of payment as fixed by
a future time. determinable future time within the meaning the bill, and the bill is due and
of this Ordinance which is expressed to be payable on the last day of grace :
payable—
* Provided that—
(a) at a fixed period after date or sight ;
(a) when the last day of grace falls
on a day appointed to be a
(b) on or at a fixed period after the
public holiday by or under
occurrence of a specified event
any law for the time being in
which is certain to happen, though
force, the bill is, except in the
the time of happening may be
case hereinafter provided for,
uncertain.
due and payable on the
preceding business day ;
(2) An instrument expressed to be
(b) when the last day of grace is a
payable on a contingency is not a bill, and
bank holiday, or when the last
the happening of the event does not cure the
day of grace is a Sunday and
defect.
the second day of grace is a
bank holiday, the bill is due
Omission of 12. Where a bill expressed to be payable
and payable on the succeeding
date in bill at a fixed period after date is issued
payable after business day.
undated, or where the acceptance of a bill
date, or
acceptance payable at a fixed period after sight is (2) Where a bill is payable at a fixed
after sight. undated, any holder may insert therein the period after date, after sight, or
true date of issue or acceptance, and the bill after the happening of a specified
shall be payable accordingly : event, the time of payment is
* The changes made to the proviso to section 14 (1) have been necessitated by the provisions of section 3 of the
Holidays Act (No. 29 of 1971) — reproduced in this Edition as Chapter 364 — which materially differs from the
now repealed Holidays Ordinance. No. 1 of 1928, reproduced as Chapter 135 in Volume III of the 1938 Edition of
the Legislative Enactments.
IV/164
