BILLS OF EXCHANGE [Cap. 92
PART V 96. Where a dishonoured bill or note is Protest when
authorized or required to be protested, and notary not
the services of a notary cannot be obtained accessible.
SUPPLEMENTARY
at the place where the bill is dishonoured,
any householder or substantial resident of -
Good faith. 92. A thing is deemed to be done in the place may, in the presence of two
good faith within the meaning of this witnesses, give a certificate, signed by them,
Ordinance, where it is in fact done honestly, attesting the dishonour of the bill, and the
whether it is done negligently or not. certificate shall in all respects operate as if it
were a formal protest of the bill.
Signature. 93. (1) Where, by this Ordinance, any The form given in the Schedule to this
instrument or writing is required to be
Ordinance may be used with necessary
signed by any person, it is not necessary that
modifications, and if used shall be sufficient.
he should sign it with his own hand, but it is
sufficient if his signature is written thereon
by some other person by or under his
97. The provisions of this Ordinance as Dividend
authority.
to crossed cheques shall apply to a warrant warrants may
be crossed.
for payment of dividend.
(2) In the case of a corporation, where,
by this Ordinance, any instrument or
writing is required to be signed, it is
98. (1) The rules in insolvency or Savings.
sufficient if the instrument or writing be
bankruptcy relating to bills of exchange,
sealed with the corporate seal.
promissory notes, and cheques shall
continue to apply thereto, notwithstanding
But nothing in this section shall be
anything in this Ordinance contained.
construed as requiring the bill or note of a
corporation to be under seal.
(2) The rules of the common law of
England, including the law merchant,
Compulation 94. Where, by this Ordinance, the time save in so far as they are inconsistent with.
of time. limited for doing any act or thing is less the express provisions of this Ordinance, or
than three days, in reckoning time, non- any other enactment for the time being in
business days are excluded. force, shall apply to bills of exchange, '
promissory notes, and cheques.
" Non-business days " for the purposes of
this Ordinance mean— (3) Nothing in this Ordinance or in any
repeal effected thereby shall affect—
(a) a bank holiday;
(a) any law or enactment for the time
(b) a day appointed to be a public being in force relating to stamps or
holiday by or under any law for the the revenue;
time being in force.
(b) the provisions of the Companies
Any other day is a business day.
Ordinance,* or enactments
amending it, or any enactment
relating to joint stock banks or
When noting 95. For the purposes of this Ordinance, companies;
equivalent to where a bill or note is required to be
protest. (c) the provisions relating to promissory
protested within a specified time or before
notes contained in the Money
some further proceeding is taken, it is
Lending Ordinance;
sufficient that the bill has been noted for
protest before the expiration of the specified
time or the taking of the proceeding; and (d) the validity of any usage relating to
the formal protest may be extended at any dividend warrants or the
time thereafter as of the date of the noting. indorsement thereof.
* Repealed and replaced by the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982.
IV/183
Cap. 92] BILLS OF EXCHANGE
SCHEDULE
[Section 96.] FORM OF PROTEST WHICH MAY BE USED WHEN THE SERVICES OF A NOTARY
CANNOT BE OBTAINED
Know all men that I. A. B. (householder), of................... in the district of...................in Sri
Lanka, at the request of C. D., there being no notary public available, did on the................. -day
of................... 19...., at................... demand payment (or acceptance) of the bill of exchange
hereunder written, from E. F; to which demand he made answer (state answer, if any), wherefore I now in the
presence of G. H. and ./. K. do protest the said bill of exchange.
(Signed) A.B.
G. H. ]
Witnesses.
J.K.]
MB.—The bill itself should be annexed, or a copy of the bill and all that is written thereon should be
underwritten.
IV/184
