CHAPTER 92
BILLS OF EXCHANGE
Ordinances AN ORDINANCE TO DECLARE THE LAW RELATING TO BILLS OF EXCHANGE, CHEQUES,
Nos. 25 of 1927, BANKERS' DRAFTS. AND PROMISSORY NOTES.
30 of 1930,
Acts
Nos. 5 of 1955,
25 of 1957,
30 of 1961.
[1st March, 1928.]
PARTI " holder " means the payee or indorsee of
a bill or note who is in possession
PRELIMINARY of it, or the bearer thereof;
" indorsement " means an indorsement
Short title. 1. This Ordinance may be cited as the
completed by delivery;
Bills of Exchange Ordinance.
Interpretation. 2. In this Ordinance, unless the context " issue " means the first delivery of a bill
otherwise requires— or note, complete in form, to a
person who takes it as a holder;
" acceptance" means an acceptance
completed by delivery or
" value " means valuable consideration ;
notification;
" action " includes a claim in reconvention " written" includes printed, and
and set-off; " writing " includes print.
"banker" includes a body of persons,
whether incorporated or not, who
PART II
carry on the business of banking;
BILLS OF EXCHANGE
" bank holiday " means a day appointed
FORM AND INTERPRETATION
to be a bank holiday by or under
the powers contained in any
3. (1) A bill of exchange is an Bill of
enactment for the time being in unconditional order in writing, addressed by exchange
force; defined.
one person to another, signed by the person
giving it, requiring the person to whom it is
" bankrupt" includes any person whose
addressed to pay on demand, or at a fixed
estate is vested in a trustee or
-or determinable future time, a sum certain
assignee under the law for the time
in money to or to the order of a specified
being in force relating to insolvency
person, or to bearer.
or bankruptcy;
(2) An instrument which does not
" bearer " means the person in possession comply with these conditions, or which
of a bill or note which is payable to orders any act to be done in addition to the
bearer; payment of money, is not a bill of exchange.
" bill" means bill of exchange, and (3) An order to pay out of a particular Particular
" note " means promissory note; fund is not unconditional within the fund.
meaning of this section ; but an unqualified
" delivery " means transfer of possession, order to pay, coupled with (a) an indication
actual or constructive, from one of a particular fund out of which the drawee
person to another; is to reimburse himself or a particular
IV/162
BILLS OF EXCHANGE [Cap.92
account to be debited with the amount, or one or some of several payees. A bill may
{b) a statement of the transaction which also be made payable to the holder of an
gives rise to the bill, is unconditional. office for the time being.
Date, place, (4) A bill is not invalid by reason— (3) Where the payee is a fictitious or non-
and value. existing person the bill may be treated as
(a) that it is not dated ;
payable to bearer.
(b) that it does not specify the value
8. (1) When a 'bill 'contains words What bills are
given, or that any value has been
prohibiting transfer, or indicating an negotiable.
given therefor ;
intention that it should not be transferable,
(c) that it does not specify the place it is valid as between the parties thereto, but
where it is drawn or the place where is not negotiable,
it is payable.
(2) A negotiable bill may be payable
Inland and 4. (1) An inland bill is a bill which is, or either to order or to bearer.
foreign bills. on the face of it purports to be—
(3) A bill is payable to bearer which is
(a) both drawn and payable within Sri expressed to be so payable, or on which the
Lanka,or only or last indorsement is an indorsement
in blank.
(b) drawn within Sri Lanka upon some
(4) A bill is payable to order which is
person resident therein.
expressed to be so payable, or which is
Any other bill is a foreign bill. expressed to be payable to a particular
person, and does not contain words
(2) Unless the contrary appear on the
prohibiting transfer or indicating an
face of the bill the holder may treat it as an
intention that it should not be transferable.
inland bill.
(5) Where a bill, either originally or by
Effect where 5. (1) A bill may be drawn payable to, indorsement, is expressed to be payable to
different or to the order of, the drawer ; or it may be the order of a specified person, and not to
parties to bill
are the same drawn payable to, or to the order of, the him or his order, it is nevertheless payable
person. drawee. to him or his order at his option.
Drawer and (2) Where in a bill drawer and drawee are 9. (1) The sum payable by a bill is a Sum payable.
drawee same the same person, or where the drawee is a sum certain within the meaning of this
person or firm.
fictitious person or a person not having Ordinance, although it is required to be
capacity to contract, the holder may treat paid—
the instrument, at his option, either as a bill
(a) with interest;
of exchange or as a promissory note.
(b) by stated instalments ;
Address to 6. (1) The drawee must be named or
drawee. otherwise indicated in a bill with reasonable
(c) by stated instalments, with a
certainty.
provision that upon default in
payment of any instalment the
(2) A bill may be addressed to two or
whole shall become due ;
more drawees whether they are partners or
not, but an order addressed to two drawees (d) according to an indicated rate of
in the alternative, or to two or more exchange, or according to a rate of
drawees in succession, is not a bill of exchange to be ascertained as
exchange. directed by the bill.
Certainty 7. (1) Where a bill is not payable to (2) Where the sum payable is expressed
required as to bearer, the payee must be named or in words and also in figures, and there is a
payee.
otherwise indicated therein with reasonable discrepancy between the two, the sum
certainty. denoted by the words is the amount
payable.
(2) A bill may be made payable to two
or more payees jointly, or it may be made (3) Where a bill is expressed to be
payable in the alternative to one of two, or payable with interest, unless the instrument
IV/163
