Cap.92] BILLS OF EXCHANGE
Time for .40. (I) Subject to the provisions of this person or a person not having
presenting bill Ordinance, when a bill payable after sight is capacity to contract by bill;
payable after
negotiated, the holder must either present it
sight.
(b) where, after the exercise of
for acceptance or negotiate it within a
reasonable diligence, such
reasonable time.
presentment cannot be effected ;
(2) If he do not do so, the drawer and all
(c) where, although the presentment has
indorsers prior to that holder are
been irregular, acceptance has been
discharged.
refused on some other ground.
(3) In determining what is a reasonable
(3) The fact that the holder has reason to
time within the meaning of this section,
believe that the bill, on presentment, will be
regard shall be had to the nature of the bill,
dishonoured does not excuse presentment.
the usage of the trade with respect to similar
bills, and the facts of the particular case.
42. (1) When a bill is duly presented for Non-
acceptance, and is not accepted within the acceptance
Rules 41. (1) A bill is duly presented for after
regarding acceptance which is presented in accordance customary time, the person presenting it customary
presentment with the following rules;— must treat it as dishonoured by non- time.
for acceptance,
acceptance. If he do not, the holder shall
and excuses for
non-presentment. (a) the presentment must be made by or lose his right of recourse against the drawer
on behalf of the holder to the and indorsers.
drawee or to some person
authorized to accept or refuse (2) Where the day on which a bill should
acceptance on his behalf at a be accepted is a bank holiday, the bill shall
reasonable hour on a business day be accepted on the succeeding business day.
and before the bit! is overdue ;
43. (1) A bill is dishonoured by Dishonour by
(b) where a bill is addressed to two or non-acceptance— non-acceptance
more drawees, who are not and its
consequences.
partners, presentment must be (a) when it is duly presented for
made to them all, unless one has acceptance, and such an acceptance
authority to accept for all, then as is prescribed by this Ordinance is
presentment may be made to him refused or cannot be obtained ; or
only;
(b) when presentment for acceptance is
(c) where the drawee is dead excused and the bill is not accepted.
presentment may be made to his
personal representative; (2) Subject to the provisions of this
Ordinance, when a bill is dishonoured by
(d) where the drawee is insolvent or
non-acceptance, an immediate right of
bankrupt, presentment may be
recourse against the drawer and indorsers
made to him or to his assignee or
accrues to the holder, and no presentment
trustee;
for payment is necessary,
(e) where authorized by agreement or
usage, a presentment through the 44. (1) The holder of a bill may refuse Duties as to
post office is sufficient; to take a qualified acceptance, and if he qualified
acceptances.
does not obtain an unqualified acceptance
(f) where the day on which a bill should
may treat the bill as dishonoured by
be presented is a bank holiday, the
non-acceptance.
bill shall be presented on the
succeeding business day. * (2) Where a qualified acceptance is taken,
and the drawer or an indorser has not
(2) Presentment in accordance with these
expressly or impliedly authorized the holder
rules is excused and a bill may be treated as
to take a qualified acceptance, or does not
dishonoured by non-acceptance—
subsequently assent thereto, such drawer or
- (ff) where the drawee is dead, insolvent, indorser is discharged from his liability on
or bankrupt, or is a fictitious the bill.
IV/170
BILLS OF EXCHANGE [Cap.92
The provisions of this subsection do not (a) where a place of payment is
apply to a partial acceptance, whereof due specified in the bill and the
notice has been given. Where a foreign bill bill is there presented;
has been accepted as to part, it must be
protested as to the balance, (b) where no place of payment is
specified, but the address of
(3) When the drawer or indorser of a bill the drawee or acceptor is
receives notice of a qualified acceptance, given in the bill, and the bill is
and does not within a reasonable time there presented;
express his dissent to the holder, he shall be
(c) where no place of payment is
deemed to have assented thereto.
specified, and no address
given, and the bill is presented
Presentment 45. Subject to the provisions of this
at the drawee's or acceptor's
for payment. Ordinance a bill must be duly presented for
place of business, if known,
payment. If it be not so presented the
and if not, at his ordinary
drawer and indorsers shall be discharged.
residence if known;
A bill is duly presented for payment
(d) in any other case, if presented to
which is presented in accordance with the
the drawee or acceptor,
following rules:—
wherever he can be found, or
if presented at his last known
(1) Where the bill is not payable' on
place of business or residence.
demand, presentment must be made
on the day it falls due.
(5) Where a bill is presented at the proper
place, and after the exercise of
(2) Where the bill is payable on demand,
reasonable diligence no person
then, subject to the provisions of
authorized to pay or refuse
this Ordinance, presentment must
payment can be found there, no
be made within a reasonable time
further presentment to the drawee
after its issue in order to render the
or acceptor is required.
drawer liable, and within a
reasonable time ' after its (6) Where a bill is drawn upon or
indorsement, in order to render the accepted by two or more persons
indorser liable. who are not partners, and no place
of payment is specified,
In determining what is a reasonable time, presentment must be made to them
regard shall be had to the nature of all.
the bill, the usage of trade with
(7) Where the drawee or acceptor of a bill
regard to similar bills, and the facts
is dead, and no place of payment is
of the particular case.
specified, presentment must be
made to a personal representative,.
(3) Presentment must be made by the
if such there be, and with the
holder or by some person
exercise of reasonable diligence he
authorized to receive payment on
can be found.
his behalf at a reasonable hour on a
business day, at the proper place as
(8) Where authorized by agreement or
hereinafter defined, either to- the
usage a presentment through the
person designated by the bill as
post office is sufficient.
payer, or to some person authorized
to pay or refuse payment on his 46. (1) Delay in making presentment for Excuses for
behalf if with the exercise of payment is excused when the delay is caused delay or non-
presentment
reasonable diligence such person by circumstances beyond the control of the
for payment.
can there be found- holder, and not imputable to his default,
misconduct, or negligence. When the cause
(4) A bill is presented at the proper of delay ceases to operate presentment must
place— be made with reasonable diligence.
13- IV/171
