inland revenue act, no. 24 of 2017 1 [certified on 24th of october, 2017] l.d.—o.
23/2017 an act to provide for the imposition of income tax be it enacted by the parliament of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka as follows:- 1.
this act may be cited as the inland revenue act, short title and no. 24 of 2017 and comes into operaton on april 1, 2018.
the effective date of the act.
part i chapter i imposition of income tax 2. (1) income tax shall be payable for each year of charging assessment by – provision.
(a) a person who has taxable income for that year; or (b) a person who receives a final withholding payment during that year.
(2) the amount of income tax payable by a person for any year of assessment shall be the total of the amounts payable under subsection (1).
(3) the income tax payable by a person under paragraph (a) of subsection (1) shall be calculated by – (a) applying the relevant rates of income tax set out in the first schedule to this act to that person’s taxable income; (b) deducting any foreign tax credit claimed by and allowed to the person for the year under section 80 of this act; and 2 pl 005318—–2,962 (07/2017) 2 inland revenue act, no. 24 of 2017 (c) deducting any other tax credit granted or allowed to the person for the year under this act.
(4) the income tax payable by a person under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) shall be calculated by applying the relevant rate set out in the first schedule to this act to each final withholding payment.
chapter ii income tax base division i: taxable income taxable income.
3. (1) subject to subsection (2), the taxable income of a person for a year of assessment shall be equal to the total of the person’s assessable income for the year from each employment, business, investment and other sources.
(2) in arriving at taxable income of a year of assessment qualifying payments and reliefs for that year under section 52 shall be deducted.
(3) the taxable income of each person and the assessable income from each source shall be determined separately.
division ii: assessable income assessable 4.
the assessable income of a person for a year of income.
assessment from employment, business, investment or other source shall be equal to – (a) in the case of a resident person, the person’s income from employment, business, investment or other source for that year, wherever the source arises; and (b) in the case of a non-resident person, the person’s income from the employment, business, investment