inland revenue act, no. 24 of 2017 195 (b) incurs a relevant financial cost when the person incurs a financial cost with respect to a derivative or foreign currency instrument.
(5) the minister may by regulation prescribe - (a) the derivative instruments; and (b) the foreign currency instruments.
chapter xxi special provisions 199.
(1) the minister may, on behalf of the government, implementation enter into, amend, or terminate a mutual administrative of mutual administrative assistance agreement with a foreign government or assistance governments.
agreements.
(2) a mutual administrative assistance agreement for which parliament has issued an instrument of ratification shall have legal effect in sri lanka according to its terms.
(3) if there is any conflict between the terms of a mutual administrative assistance agreement to which subsection (2) applies and any other law, the mutual administrative assistance agreement shall prevail.
(4) if a tax treaty or mutual administrative assistance agreement having legal effect in sri lanka provides for exchange of information, or reciprocal assistance in the recovery of tax or service of process, the commissioner- general shall use the powers available under this act or any other law to meet sri lanka’s obligations under the treaty or agreement on the basis that a reference in this act or other law: (a) to “tax” includes a foreign tax to which the exchange of information or reciprocal assistance relates; 196 inland revenue act, no. 24 of 2017 (b) to “unpaid tax” (or words to that effect) includes an amount specified in paragraph (a) that has not been paid by the due date; (c) to “taxpayer” includes a person liable for an amount specified in paragraph (a); and (d) to “tax law” includes the law under which a foreign tax specified in paragraph (a) is imposed.
(5) in this section - “international agreement” means an agreement between the republic of sri lanka and a foreign government or governments; “mutual administrative assistance agreement” means a tax information exchange agreement or other international agreement for mutual administrative assistance in relation to taxation matters.
sinhala text to 200.
in the event of any inconsistency between the prevail in case sinhala and tamil texts of this act, the sinhala text shall of inconsistency.
prevail.
chapter xxii temporary concessions and transitional provisions temporary 201.
(1) the provisions of the sixth schedule to this act concessions.
provide for concessions of a temporary nature, and apply to modify the application of this act for the periods set out therein.