Cap.103] INSOLVENTS
Schedule, either by word of mouth or direct the Fiscal, or other person therein
interrogatories in writing, for the finding named for that purpose, to apprehend and
out and discovery of the property of such arrest such person and bring him before the
insolvent concealed, kept, or disposed of by court for examination.
such wife in her own person or by her own
act, or by any other person, and she shall 45. Where it shall be shown by affidavit Service of
to the satisfaction of the court that any summons
incur such danger or penalty for not coming
where person
person to whom any such summons is
before the court, or for refusing to make keeps out of
and sign such declaration and to be directed as aforesaid is keeping out of the the way.
way and cannot be personally served
examined, or to sign her examination, or for
therewith, and that due pains have been
not fully answering to the satisfaction of the
taken to effect such personal service, it shall
court, as is hereinafter provided.
be lawful for the court to order by
endorsement upon the summons that the
If insolvent 43. If in any case it shall be proved to
keep out of the the satisfaction of the court that any delivery of a copy of such summons to the
way, or be wife or servant, or some adult inmate of the
insolvent is keeping out of the way and
about to quit
house or family of the person at his usual or
Sri Lanka, &c., cannot be personally served with a
warrant. summons, and that due pains have been last known place of abode or business, and
explaining the purport thereof to such wife,
taken to effect such personal service, or that
servant, or inmate, shall be equivalent to
there is probable cause for believing that he
personal service; and in every such case the
is about to quit Sri Lanka, or to remove or
service of such summons in pursuance of
conceal any of his goods or effects, unless he
such order shall be and be deemed and
be forthwith apprehended, it shall be lawful
taken to be of the same force and effect to
for such court, by warrant, to authorize and
all intents and purposes as if the party to
direct the Fiscal, or any person it shall think
whom such summons was directed had been
fit, to apprehend and arrest such insolvent,
personally served therewith.
and bring him before the court to be
examined in like manner as if he appeared
46. Upon the appearance of any person Power to
upon a summons. summoned or brought before the court examine
persons
upon any warrant as aforesaid, or if any
summoned or
Court may 44. After any person has been adjudged
person be present at any sitting of the court, present at any
summon insolvent it shall be lawful for the District
person it shall be lawful for the court to examine or sitting.
Court to summon before it any person
suspected of to permit the examination by the creditors
having known or suspected to have any of the
of every such person upon oath, either by
insolvent's estate of the insolvent in his possession, or
property, &c. word of mouth or by interrogatories in
who is supposed to be indebted to the
writing, concerning the person, trade,
insolvent, or any person the court may
dealings, or estate of any insolvent, or
believe capable of giving information
concerning any act of insolvency by any
concerning the person, trade, dealings, or
insolvent committed, and to reduce into
estate of the insolvent, or concerning any
writing the answers of every such person;
act of insolvency committed by him, or any
and such answers so reduced into writing
information material to the full disclosure of
such person examined is hereby required to
his dealings ; and the court may require such
sign.
person to produce any books, papers, deeds,
writings, or other documents in his custody 47. If any such person examined as last Court may
or power which may appear to the court aforesaid shall, in and by his examination order payment
of debts
necessary to the verification of the signed as aforesaid, and also in and by a
admitted to be
deposition of such person, or to the full separate writing in the form N in the due to the
disclosure of any of the matters which the • Schedule, admit that he is indebted to the estate:
and if they fail court is authorized to inquire into; and if insolvent in any sum of money upon the
to attend, such person so summoned as aforesaid shall balance of accounts, it shall be lawful for
warrant.
not come before the court at the time the court, if it think fit, to order (in the form
appointed, having no lawful impediment 0 in the Schedule, or to the like effect) that
(made known to the court at the time of its such person shall forthwith, or at such time
sitting, and allowed by it), it shall be lawful and in such manner as to the court may
for the court by warrant to authorize and seem expedient, pay the amount so
V/36
INSOLVENTS [Cap.103
admitted, in full discharge thereof, to the upon him the sale or disposition as owner,
assignees, together with the costs of and the court shall have power to order the same
incident to the summons of such person, if to be sold or disposed of for the benefit of
the court think fit to award costs, or the the creditors of the insolvent:
court may, if it think fit, in the said form 0,
Provided that nothing herein contained Assignments of
order the assignees to pay the costs of the
shall invalidate or affect any transfer or vessels under
person summoned out of the estate of the the Merchant
assignment of any ship or vessel, or any
such order to insolvent; and every such order shall have Shipping Act.
share thereof, made as a security for any
have effect of the effect of a judgment in the said court,
debt, either by way of mortgage or
judgment and may be enforced accordingly: assignment, duly registered according to the
provisions of the Merchant Shipping Act.
Provided always that no such order shall
be made unless such party has been 50. But if there shall be found among Consigned
informed by the Judge of the effect of such the insolvent's property at the time of its goods, &c., to
be given up to
admission before the same is signed as seizure any wares, goods, or merchandise
the owner.
aforesaid; consigned to him for the special purpose of
being sold by him on commission, or
Provided also, that if part only of the sum intrusted in his hands for any specific
purpose, and which evidently are the
actually due be so admitted, or if the court
property of the consignor or person so
make an order for part only of the sum
intrusting, notice thereof shall be
admitted, the residue may be recoverable in
transmitted to the owners as soon as
the same manner in all respects as if no such
possible, in order that they may take the
admission or order had been made.
necessary measures to secure their property,
and the same shall be carefully preserved,
Court may 48. The District Court may order that
and shall be delivered over to the lawful
order letters for 3 period of three months from the date
addressed to owners.
insolvent to be 0f any such Order all Post letters directed or
redirected or addressed to any insolvent at the place of
51. If any person adjudged insolvent Conveyances,
delivered to which he shall be described in the petition
under this Ordinance shall (except upon the &c., by
assignees, &c. „ ... „,. .. . ,
for sequestration of his estate as insolvent, marriage of any of his children, or for some insolvent
without
shall be redirected, readdressed, sent, or valuable consideration) have conveyed,
valuable
delivered by the Postmaster-General, or the assigned, or transferred to any of his consideration,
officers acting under him, to the assignees children, or to any other person, any real or void.
named in such order; and upon notice by personal property whatsoever, or have
transmission of a duplicate of any such delivered or made over to any such person
order to the Postmaster-General, or the any bills, bonds, notes, or other securities,
officers acting under him, by the assignees or have transferred his debts to any other
or other person named in such order, of the person or into any other person's name,
making of such order, it shall be lawful for such first-mentioned person being at the
the Postmaster-General, or such officers as time of making any such conveyance,
aforesaid, to readdress, redirect, send, or assignment, transfer, or delivery insolvent,
the court shall have power to order any such
deliver all such post letters to the assignees
property to be sold and disposed of for the
named in such order accordingly; and the
benefit of the creditors under the
court may, upon any application to be made
insolvency; and every such sale shall be
for that purpose, renew any such order for a
valid against the insolvent and such children
like or for any other less period as often as
and persons, and against all persons
may be necessary.
claiming under him.
POWER OF THE DISTRICT COURT OVER
CERTAIN DESCRIPTIONS OF PROPERTY • 52. No seizure or detention of the goods Seizure of
of any insolvent for rent made after an act goods for rent
Goods in the 49. If any insolvent, at the time he of insolvency, and whether before or after not to be
possession, commits the act of insolvency, shall, by the available for
the filing of the petition for sequestration of
order, or . more than one
disposition of consent and permission of the true owner his estate, shall be available for more than year's rent
the insolvent to thereof, have in his possession, order, or one year's rent accrued prior to the day of due; the
be deemed his disposition any goods or effects whereof he the filing of such petition, but the landlord landlord to
prove for the
propety was reputed owner, or whereof he had taken or person to whom the rent shall be due residue.
V/37
Cap.103] INSOLVENTS
shall be allowed to come in as creditor for TRANSACTIONS WITH THE INSOLVENT, AND
the overplus of the rent due, and for which EXECUTIONS AGAINST HIS PROPERTY UP TO
the goods seized shall not be available. THE TIME OF THE FILING OF THE PETITION
FOR SEQUESTRATION OF HIS ESTATE AS
Where 53. If any insolvent shall as trustee be INSOLVENT, OR WITHIN A LIMITED TIME
insolvent is a seized, possessed of, or entitled to, either PREVIOUSLY THERETO
trustee, the
alone or jointly, any real or personal estate,
court may
order or any interest secured upon or arising out
conveyance or of the same, or shall have standing in his
assignment to 56. All payments really and bona fide Payment by
another name as trustee, either alone or jointly, any made by any insolvent, or by any person on insolvent,
trustee. funds or annuities, or any of the stock of his behalf, before the filing of a petition for
any public company in Sri Lanka, it shall be
sequestration of his estate as insolvent to
lawful for the court, on the petition of the
any creditor of such insolvent, and all
person entitled in possession to the receipt
payments really and bona fide made to any
of the rents, issues, and profits, dividends,
insolvent before the filing of such petition,
interest, or produce thereof, on due notice
and all conveyances by any insolvent bona conveyances by
given to all other persons (if any) interested fide made and executed before the filing of him;
therein, to order the assignees, and all
such petition, and all contracts, dealings, contracts and
persons whose act or consent thereto is and transactions by and with any insolvent dealings with
necessary, to convey, assign, or transfer the him,
really and bona fide made and entered into
said estate, interest, funds, or annuities to
before the filing of such petition, and all
such person as the said court shall think fit,
executions and attachments against the and
upon the same trusts as the said estate, lands of any insolvent bona fide executed by executions •
interest, funds, or annuities were subject to
seizure, and all executions and attachments
before the insolvency, or such of them as
against the goods and effects of any
shall be then subsisting and capable of
insolvent bona fide executed and levied by
taking effect, and also to receive and pay
seizure and sale before the date of the filing
over the rents, issues, and profits, dividends,
of such petition, shall be deemed to be valid in what cases
interest, or produce thereof as the said court notwithstanding any prior act of insolvency valid, if no
shall direct. notice of act of
by such insolvent committed, provided the
insolvency;
person so dealing with or paying to or being
Title to 54. No title to any real or personal paid by such insolvent, or at whose suit or
property sold estate sold under any insolvency shall be on whose account such execution or
not to be
impeached by the insolvent, or any person attachment shall have issued, had not at the
impeached
unless claiming under him, in respect of any defect time of such payment, conveyance, contract,
insolvency in the petition for sequestration or in any of dealing, or transaction, or at the time of
disputed within
the proceedings under the same, unless the such executing or levying such execution or
a certain time.
insolvent shall, within the time allowed attachment, or at the time of making any
by this Ordinance, have commenced sale thereunder, notice of any prior act of
proceedings to dispute, dismiss, or annul the insolvency by him committed:
petition or adjudication thereunder, and
duly prosecuted the same.
Provided always that nothing herein but not to
The court, 55. After the adjudication of insolvency contained shall be deemed or taken to give extend to
after in any case shall have been advertised in the validity to any payment, or to any delivery Fraudulent
adjudication, preferences,
may order any Gazette, it shall be lawful for the court to or transfer of any goods or effects made by &c.
agent of the order any treasurer or other officer, or any any insolvent being a fraudulent preference
insolvent to banker, attorney, registered attorney or of any creditor of such insolvent, or to any
deliver over all
other agent of the insolvent, to pay and conveyance or mortgage made or given
moneys, &c.
deliver over to the assignees, to the credit of by any insolvent by way of fraudulent
the estate of such insolvent, all moneys or preference of any creditor of such insolvent,
securities for moneys in his custody, or to any execution founded on a judgment
possession, or power as such officer or on a power of attorney to confess judgment,
agent, and which he is not by law entitled to or consent to a judgment given by any
retain against the insolvent or his assignees, insolvent by way of fraudulent preference.
V/38
INSOLVENTS [Cap.103
Bona fide 57. No purchase from any insolvent STAMPS
purchases not bona fide and for valuable consideration
to be 60. No deed, conveyance, assignment, Deeds and
where the purchaser had notice at the time
impeached by admission, or other assurance of or to or other
notice of act of of such purchase of an act of insolvency by instruments
relating solely to any lands, or to any
insolvency, such insolvent committed, shall be relating to
unless petition mortgage, charge, or other incumbrance insolvency not
be filed within impeached by reason thereof, unless a upon, or any estate, right, or interest of and liable to stamp
twelve months petition for sequestration of the estate of duty.
in any lands, or personal estate, being the
after the act of
such insolvent shall have been filed within
insolvency. estate of or belonging to any insolvent, or
twelve months after such act of insolvency. part or parcel thereof, and which after the
execution of such deed, conveyance,
assignment, or assurance respectively shall
Fraudulent 58. Every transaction, dealing, transfer,
either be or remain the estate and property
preferences delivery, alienation, mortgage, pledge, or
according to of such insolvent or of the assignees
payment by any insolvent to or with any
the law of appointed or chosen under any insolvency,
England to be creditor of such insolvent, or to or with any
and no power of attorney, order, certificate
deemed such in
other person, which by the law of England
like cases of conformity, affidavit, or other instrument
within Sri at the corresponding period would be and or writing whatsoever relating solely to the
Lanka. be deemed to be a fraudulent preference of
estate or effects of any insolvent, or to any
one creditor before other creditors in any
part thereof, or to any proceedings under
proceeding in bankruptcy, or in any suit or any insolvency, and no affidavit, bond, or
action, shall, in the like case arising within other proceeding under this Ordinance
Sri Lanka be and be deemed to be a relating solely to insolvency matters, shall
fraudulent preference according to the true be liable to any stamp duty, save and except
intent and meaning of this Ordinance. such stamp duty as is provided in Part V of
Schedule A of the Stamp Ordinance.
Certain powers 59. Every power of attorney to confess
61. The provisions contained in the Provisions of
of attorney to judgment* in any personal action given by Ordinance for the time being in force Stamp
confess
any insolvent after the commencement of Ordinance to
judgment and relating to stamps shall (so far as the same
extend to
consents to this Ordinance, and within two months of are applicable and consistent with the stamps under
judgments,
given within the filing of a petition for sequestration of provisions of this Ordinance), in all cases this Ordinance.
two months of his estate by or against such insolvent, and not hereby expressly provided for, be of full
filing petition being for or in respect of (wholly or in part) force and effect with respect to the stamps
to be null and
an antecedent debt or money demand, and to be provided under and by virtue of this
void.
every consent to a judgment given by Ordinance, and shall be applied and put in
any insolvent at any time after the execution for collecting and securing the
commencement of this Ordinance, and sums of money denoted thereby, and for
within two months of the filing of any such preventing, detecting, and punishing all
petition, in any action commenced by frauds, forgeries, and other offences relating
collusion with the insolvent, and not thereto, as fully and effectually to all intents
adversely or purporting to have been given and purposes as if such provisions had been
in an action, but having been in fact given herein repeated and specially enacted with
reference to the said last-mentioned stamps
before the commencement of any action
and sums of money respectively.
against the insolvent, such insolvent being
unable to meet his engagements at the time
APPOINTMENT BY THE COURT OF
of giving such power of attorney* or
PROVISIONAL ASSIGNEES
consent (as the case may be), shall be
deemed and taken to be null and void, • 62. It shall be lawful for the District As to
whether the same shall have been given by Court, on cause shown by any person appointment
such insolvent in contemplation of the interested in the due administration of the by court of
provisional
sequestration of his estate as insolvent or insolvent estate at any time after the assignee.
not. adjudication of insolvency, by order of
•Sections 31 and 32 of the Civil Procedure Code relating to warrants and powers of attorney to confess
judgment are repealed by Law No. 20 of 1977.
V/39
Cap.103] INSOLVENTS
court to appoint one or more fit person or rejection or removal a new choice and
persons to be assignee or assignees of any appointment of another assignee shall be
insolvent estate provisionally arid until the made in like manner.
creditors of the said estate shall have made
choice of assignees. 67. If one or more of the partners of ai Joint creditor
firm be adjudged insolvent, any creditor to entitled to
Removal of 63. Provisional assignees may be prove under
whom the insolvent is indebted jointly with
provisional removed at the meeting of creditors for the ' separate estate
assignee. the other partners of the firm, or any of for the purpose
choice of assignees if the said creditors shall
them , shall be entitled to prove his debt for of of voting in the
think fit, or may then be chosen as . choice of
the purpose only of voting in the choice of
assignees.
assignees, but shall and may, until so
assignees and of being heard against the
removed, act in the collection,
allowance of the insolvent's certificate, or of
administration, and distribution of the said
either of such purposes; but such creditors
estate in all respects the same as assignees
shall not receive any dividend out of the
elected by the creditors are by this
separate estate of the insolvent until all the
Ordinance authorized or required to do.
separate creditors shall have received the
full amount of their respective debts.
Provisional 64. No such provisional assignees shall
assignee not to proceed to make sale of any part of the said
sell property estate without the authority for that purpose 68. In no case shall it be competent for Who
without the creditors to elect as assignee the incompetent to
authority of of the said court first had and obtained. be appointed
court. insolvent himself, nor any person related to
assignee.
the insolvent by consanguinity or affinity
Effect of 65. Every order of court appointing within the fourth degree, nor any minor, nor
appointment of provisional assignees shall, so soon as made, any attorney-at-law, nor any person not
provisional
have the effect in law to vest in such resident within Sri Lanka, nor any person
assignee.
provisional assignees for the uses and having an interest opposed to the general
purposes of the sequestration, and until interest of the creditors in the insolvent
their removal, all the present and future estate, nor any person declared to be
estate of the insolvent, real and personal, as incapable of being elected by virtue of the
fully and completely to all intents and provisions in the next succeeding section
purposes as the said estate is by virtue of contained.
sections 70 and 71 of this Ordinance vested
in the assignees chosen by the creditors. 69. If any person elected as assignee Acts of
shall be proved to the satisfaction of the assignee
CHOICE OF ASSIGNEES, AND THEIR RIGHTS District Court to have, either directly or entitling the
court to set
AND DUTIES indirectly, given or promised to give to any election asid
creditor of the insolvent any species of and declare
Assignees when 66. At the first public sitting appointed offender
and how by the court under any insolvency, or at any valuable consideration whatsoever, in order disqualified.
chosen. to obtain the vote of such creditor at the
adjournment thereof, assignees of the
choice of assignees, or to have agreed to
insolvent's estate and effects shall and may
secure and make good to any creditor some
be chosen and appointed; and all creditors
certain sum or dividend in discharge or
who have proved debts to the amount of
diminution of his debt, upon condition or in
one hundred rupees and upwards shall be
order that such creditor should give his vote
entitled to vote in such choice ; and also any
to such assignee, or to have offered or
person authorized by letter of attorney from
agreed, in case any creditor of the insolvent
any such creditor, upon proof of the
should consent to vote for such assignee, to
execution thereof, either by affidavit or by
abstain from opening up or investigating
oath before the court viva voce; and the
some previous transactions between such
choice and appointment shall be made by
creditor and the insolvent which were, or
the major part in value of the creditor| so
were supposed to be, of questionable
entitled to vote:
validity, or to have contrived or been privy
Court may Provided that the court shall have power to any plan or arrangement by which debts
reject or to reject any person so chosen who shall or securities really belonging to some one or
remove any
appear to such court unfit to be an assignee, more persons have been divided amongst a
person chosen
as unfit or to remove any assignee; and upon such greater number of persons for the purpose
V/40
