Cap. 103] INSOLVENTS
liable for so much of his debt to the estate any such action as shall be taxed by the
of which he was assignee as shall not be proper officer in that behalf, subject to be
paid by dividends under his insolvency, and reviewed in like manner and by the same
for interest at the rate of nine per centum authority as any other taxation of costs by
per annum on the whole debt. such officer.
Suits not to 86. Whenever any assignee shall die or LAST EXAMINATION
abate by death be removed, or a new assignee shall be
or removal of
chosen, no action shall be thereby abated, 89. The last examination of the The insolvent
assignees.
but the court in which any action is insolvent shall be at the second public to prepare
balance sheet
depending may, upon the suggestion of such sitting of the court for the insolvent to
and accounts,
death or removal and new choice, allow the surrender and conform, as advertised in the &c,
name of the surviving or new assignee to be Gazette, and the insolvent shall prepare
substituted in the place of the former, and such balance sheet and accounts, and in
such action shall be prosecuted in the name such form, as the court shall direct, and
or names of the said surviving or new shall subscribe such balance sheet and
assignee or assignees in the same manner as accounts, and file the same in court, and
if he had originally commenced the same. deliver a copy thereof to the assignees ten
days at least before the day appointed for
Inaction 87. If the assignees commence any the last examination, or the adjournment
against a action for any money due to the insolvent's day thereof for that purpose ; and such
debtor to the
estate before the time allowed for the balance sheet and accounts, before such last
estate, in what
case he may insolvent to dispute the insolvency shall examination, may be amended from time to
pay money into have elapsed, any defendant in any such time as occasion shall require and such
court.
action shall be entitled, after notice given to court shall direct ; and the insolvent shall
the assignees, to pay the same or any part make oath of the truth of such balance sheet
thereof into the court in which such action and accounts whenever he shall be duly
is brought, and all proceedings with respect required by the court so to do ; and the last
to the money so paid into court shall examination of the insolvent shall in no case
thereupon be stayed until such time shall be passed unless his balance sheet shall have
have elapsed ; and if within that time the been duly filed as aforesaid , and the court
-insolvent shall not have commenced such may on the application of the assignees or
action or other proceeding as allowed by of the insolvent make such allowance
this Ordinance, and prosecuted the same out of the estate of the insolvent for the
with due diligence, the money shall be paid preparation of such balance sheet and
out of court to the assignees, but otherwise accounts, and to such person, as the court
shall abide the event of such action or other shall think fit, in any case in which it shall
proceeding, and upon such event shall be be made to appear to the satisfaction of the
paid out of court, either to the assignees or court, from the nature of the accounts or
the person adjudged insolvent, as the court other good cause, that the insolvent
shall direct; and after such payment of required assistance in that behalf.
money so made into court it shall not be
lawful for the person so adjudged insolvent 90. If any insolvent apprehended by any Insolvents
to proceed against the defendant for warrant of the court shall, within the time apprehended
by warrant.
recovery of the same money. allowed for him to surrender, submit to be
examined, and in all things conform, he
Limitation of 88. Every action brought against any shall have the same benefit as if he had
actions. person for anything done in pursuance of voluntarily surrendered.
this Ordinance shall be commenced within
9
three months next after the act committed ; 91. It shall be lawful for the court, at the Court may
and if there be a judgment for the time appointed for the last examination of adjourn last
examination
defendant, or if the plaintiff shall be the insolvent, or at any enlargement or
sine die.
nonsuited or discontinue his action after adjournment thereof, to adjourn such
appearance thereto, the defendant shall examination sine die ; and in such case the
receive such indemnity as to all costs, insolvent shall be free from arrest or
charges, and expenses incurred in and about imprisonment for such time (if any) as such
V/44
INSOLVENTS [Cap.103
court shall from time to time by 94. Every person with whom any Bonafide
endorsement on the summons of the insolvent shall have really and bona fide creditors for debts
insolvent, think fit to appoint. contracted any debt or demand before the contracted
filing of the petition for sequestration of his after an act of
If insolvent in 92. Whenever any insolvent is in prison estate shall, notwithstanding any prior act insolvency may
custody, court or in custody under any process, of insolvency committed by such insolvent, prove
may appoint a
person to attachment, execution, commitment or be admitted to prove the same as if no such
attend him sentence, the court may appoint a person to act of insolvency had been committed ;
with books, attend him from time to time to produce to provided such person had not at the time
papers, &c., to
enable him to him his books, papers, and writings, in the same was contracted notice of any act of
prepare a order that he may prepare his balance sheet, insolvency by such insolvent committed.
balance sheet. and show the particulars of his estate and
effects, previous to his last examination and 95. The court, out of the estate and Amount of
discovery thereof. effects of the insolvent, shall order payment taxes.
of all taxes due by the insolvent at the time
PROOF OF DEBTS AND PAYMENTS IN FULL of his insolvency up to the end of the
current quarter.
When and how 93. At the sittings appointed by the
debts may be court under section 30 of this Ordinance,
proved. 96. If any person already appointed or If insolvent an
and at every adjournment thereof, and at
employed, or who may be hereafter officer of
every other sitting held for proof of debts, friendly
appointed to or employed, in any office in
and whereof and of the purport whereof ten society, court
the National Savings Bank, or in the Loan to order
days' notice shall have been given in the
Board, or in any friendly society duly payment of
Gazette, every creditor of the insolvent may debt to them
incorporated, and being intrusted with the
prove his debt by his own oath or affidavit ; before any
keeping of the accounts, or having in his other debts.
and all bodies politic and public companies
hands or possession by virtue of his office or
incorporated or authorized to sue or bring
employment any moneys or effects
actions may prove by an agent, provided
belonging to such Savings Bank, Loan
such agent shall in his deposition swear that
Board, or society, or any deeds or securities
he is such agent, and that he is authorized to
relating to the same, shall become insolvent,
make such proof:
the court shall, upon application made by
the order of any such society, or any
Provided always that if it shall appear to
committee thereof, or the major part of
the court that any clerk, agent, or other
them assembled at any meeting thereof,
person is more fully cognizant of the nature
order payment and delivery over to be made
of the debt sought to be proved than the
to such society, or to such person as such
creditor is, the said court shall allow such
society or committee may appoint, of all
clerk, agent, or other person to prove such
moneys and other things belonging to such
debt by his oath or affidavit ; and
society, and shall also order payment out of
Provided that any creditor who is out of the estate and effects of the insolvent of all
Sri Lanka may, in case he have no known sums of money remaining due which the
agent in Sri Lanka capable of proving the insolvent received by virtue of his said office
alleged debt, make the necessary affidavit or employment, before any either of his
before some person duly qualified to debts are paid or satisfied.
administer oaths in the place where he
resides, such person being certified to be so 97. When any insolvent shall have been Three months'
qualified by some sufficient authority in that indebted at the time of filing the petition for wages or salary
to clerks or
behalf; the sequestration of his estate to any servants.
servant, clerk, or superintendent, labourer,
Creditor may Provided also that it shall be lawful for cooly, or workman of such insolvent, in
be examined the court to examine upon oath, either by respect of the wages or salary of such
upon oath.
word of mouth or by interrogatories in servant, clerk, or superintendent, labourer,
writing, every person claiming to prove a cooly, or workman, it shall be lawful for the
debt, or to require such further proof, and court, upon proof thereof, to order so much
to examine such other persons in relation as shall be so due, not exceeding three
thereto, as such court shall think fit. months' wages or salary, and not exceeding
V/45
