insolvents [cap.103 insolvent 154. if any insolvent shall be taken in 157. if any person be committed by the questions to be taken, not execution after the refusal of protection, or district court for refusing to answer or for specified ln discharged for •- warrant. one year. after the refusal or suspension of his not fully answering any question put to him certificate, he shall not be discharged from by the court, such court shall in its warrant such execution, until he shall have been in of commitment specify every such question : prison for the full period of one year, except by order of the district court. provided that if any person so committed shall bring any habeas corpus in order to be discharged from such commitment, and list of 155. every district judge shall transmit there shall appear on the return of such uncertificated to the attorney-general on or before the insolvents to be habeas corpus any such insufficiency in the fifteenth day of january and the fifteenth published in form of the warrant whereby such person the gazette day of july in each year, the name and every six residence of every insolvent whose was committed, by reason whereof he might months. certificate shall have been refused or be discharged, it shall be lawful for the suspended by such judge, and who shall court of appeal, and such court is hereby then be uncertificated ; and the said required, to commit such person to the same attorney-general shall thereupon cause a prison, there to remain until he shall list, alphabetically arranged, showing the conform, unless it shall be shown to such names and residences of all such court by the person committed that he has uncertificated insolvents to be prepared, and fully answered all lawful questions put to published in the gazette for general him by the district court, or if such person information, was committed for refusing to be sworn or for not signing his examinations, unless it shall appear to the court of appeal that he any person 156. if any insolvent, or the wife of any had a sufficient reason for the same : refusing to be insolvent, shall refuse to make and sign the sworn, or declaration contained in the schedule, or if refusing to answer, or not any other person shall refuse to be sworn, or provided also that the court of appeal answering shall refuse to answer any lawful question shall, if required thereto by the person fully, or put by the court, or shall not fully answer committed, in case the whole of the refusing to sign examination, any such question to the satisfaction of the examination of the person so committed or to produce court, or shall refuse to sign his examination shall not have been stated in the warrant of books, &c., when reduced into writing (not having any maybe commitment, inspect and consider the whole committed. lawful objection allowed by the court), or of the examination of such person whereof shall not produce any books, papers, deeds, any such question was a part ; and if it shall and writings, or other documents in his appear from the whole examination that the custody or power, relating to any of the answer or answers of the person committed matters under inquiry, which such insolvent, is or are satisfactory, such court shall and wife of the insolvent, or person is required by the court to produce, and to the may order the person so committed to be production of which he shall not state any discharged. objection allowed by the court, it shall be lawful for the court, by warrant, to commit 158. if any person shall disobey any rule persons such insolvent, wife of such insolvent, or or order of the district court, duly made by disobeying any order of court other person to prison, there to remain such court, for enforcing any of the to be without bail until he shall submit himself to purposes and provisions of this ordinance, committed. such court to be sworn, and full answers or made or entered into by consent of such make to the satisfaction of such court to all person for carrying into effect any of such such lawful questions as shall be put by the purposes or provisions, the court may, by court, and sign such examination, and warrant in the form s in the schedule, produce such books, papers, deeds, writings, commit the person so offending to prison, and other documents in his custody or there to remain without bail until such power, to the production of which no such court, or the court of appeal, shall make objection as aforesaid has been allowed. order to the contrary, v/59 cap.103] insolvents if petitioning 159. if the debt stated by the petitioning insolvent's estate not before come to the creditor's debt creditor in his affidavit, or in his petition for knowledge of the assignees, shall be allowed be not due, or sequestration, and verified by affidavit to be five per centum thereupon, and such further if act of insolvency be due to him from any person, shall not be reward as the assignees, with the consent of not proved, really due, or if, after a petition for the court, shall think fit to be paid out of and petition be sequestration filed, it shall not have been the estate recovered on such discovery. filed fraudulently or proved that the person against whom such maliciously, petition has been filed had committed an act 162. if any creditor of any insolvent obtaining court may of insolvency, and it shall also appear that shall obtain any sum of money, or any money, &c., to order forbear satisfaction such petition was filed fraudulently or property whatever, or security for money, opposition to maliciously, the court shall and may, upon from any person as an inducement for or to consent petition of the person against whom any forbearing to oppose or for consenting to to allowance of, certificate such, petition was so filed, examine into the the allowance of the certificate of such same, and order satisfaction to be made to insolvent, or to forbear to petition for the him for the damages by him sustained. recall of the same, every such creditor so offending shall forfeit and lose for every penalty. petitioning 160. if any petitioning creditor shall, such offence the treble value or amount of creditor after the filing of his petition, receive any such money, property, or security so compounding money, satisfaction, or security for his debt obtained (as the case may be). with person after or any part thereof, whereby such insolvency to petitioning creditor may receive more for 163. any person who shall insert or inserting forfeit his debt cause to be inserted in the gazette, or in any advertisements and pay the every ten rupees in respect of his debt than newspaper, any advertisement under this without money, &c. the other creditors, such petitioning creditor authority. ordinance without authority, or knowing shall forfeit his whole debt, and shall also the same to be false in any material repay or deliver up such money, particular, shall be guilty of an offence, and satisfaction, or security, or the full value liable on conviction to punishment by fine thereof, to the assignees of such insolvent or imprisonment as the high court shall for the benefit of the creditors of the award. insolvent. 164. sections 36 and 37 shall apply and sections 36 concealing 161. any person who shall wilfully extend to state debtors as if the state had and 37 to apply insolvent's conceal any real or personal estate of the to state been specially mentioned in the said effects. debtors. insolvent, and who shall not, within forty- sections, two days after the filing of the petition for sequestration, discover such estate to the 165. in this ordinance, unless the interpretation court or to the assignees, shall forfeit the context otherwise requires— penalty. sum of one thousand rupees, and double the allowance to value of the estate so concealed ; and any " registered attorney " means an attorney- persons person, other than the person who shall at-law appointed under chapter v making have concealed the same, who shall after of the civil procedure code by a discovery. such time voluntarily discover to the court party or his recognized agent to act or to the assignees any part of such on his behalf. schedule [section 10.] form a the insolvency ordinance declaration of insolvency i, the undersigned a. &; of. .... .......... do hereby declare that i am unable to meet my engagements with my creditors. dated at the hour of........ o'clock (in the forenoon, or at noon, or in the afternoon, as the case may be) this. ..... .day of. ....... .19..... witness (signed) a. b. c.d. v/60