INSOLVENTS [Cap.103
Insolvent 154. If any insolvent shall be taken in 157. If any person be committed by the Questions to be
taken, not execution after the refusal of protection, or District Court for refusing to answer or for Specified ln
discharged for •- warrant.
one year. after the refusal or suspension of his not fully answering any question put to him
certificate, he shall not be discharged from
by the court, such court shall in its warrant
such execution, until he shall have been in
of commitment specify every such question :
prison for the full period of One year, except
by order of the District Court.
Provided that if any person so committed
shall bring any habeas corpus in order to be
discharged from such commitment, and
List of 155. Every District Judge shall transmit
there shall appear on the return of such
uncertificated to the Attorney-General on or before the
insolvents to be habeas corpus any such insufficiency in the
fifteenth day of January and the fifteenth
published in
form of the warrant whereby such person
the Gazette day of July in each year, the name and
every six residence of every insolvent whose was committed, by reason whereof he might
months. certificate shall have been refused or be discharged, it shall be lawful for the
suspended by such Judge, and who shall Court of Appeal, and such court is hereby
then be uncertificated ; and the said required, to commit such person to the same
Attorney-General shall thereupon cause a prison, there to remain until he shall
list, alphabetically arranged, showing the conform, unless it shall be shown to such
names and residences of all such
court by the person committed that he has
uncertificated insolvents to be prepared, and
fully answered all lawful questions put to
published in the Gazette for general
him by the District Court, or if such person
information,
was committed for refusing to be sworn or
for not signing his examinations, unless it
shall appear to the Court of Appeal that he
Any person 156. If any insolvent, or the wife of any
had a sufficient reason for the same :
refusing to be insolvent, shall refuse to make and sign the
sworn, or
declaration contained in the Schedule, or if
refusing to
answer, or not any other person shall refuse to be sworn, or Provided also that the Court of Appeal
answering shall refuse to answer any lawful question shall, if required thereto by the person
fully, or
put by the court, or shall not fully answer committed, in case the whole of the
refusing to sign
examination, any such question to the satisfaction of the examination of the person so committed
or to produce court, or shall refuse to sign his examination shall not have been stated in the warrant of
books, &c.,
when reduced into writing (not having any
maybe commitment, inspect and consider the whole
committed. lawful objection allowed by the court), or
of the examination of such person whereof
shall not produce any books, papers, deeds,
any such question was a part ; and if it shall
and writings, or other documents in his
appear from the whole examination that the
custody or power, relating to any of the
answer or answers of the person committed
matters under inquiry, which such insolvent,
is or are satisfactory, such court shall and
wife of the insolvent, or person is required
by the court to produce, and to the may order the person so committed to be
production of which he shall not state any discharged.
objection allowed by the court, it shall be
lawful for the court, by warrant, to commit 158. If any person shall disobey any rule Persons
such insolvent, wife of such insolvent, or or order of the District Court, duly made by disobeying any
order of court
other person to prison, there to remain such court, for enforcing any of the
to be
without bail until he shall submit himself to purposes and provisions of this Ordinance, committed.
such court to be sworn, and full answers or made or entered into by consent of such
make to the satisfaction of such court to all person for carrying into effect any of such
such lawful questions as shall be put by the purposes or provisions, the court may, by
court, and sign such examination, and warrant in the form S in the Schedule,
produce such books, papers, deeds, writings, commit the person so offending to prison,
and other documents in his custody or there to remain without bail until such
power, to the production of which no such court, or the Court of Appeal, shall make
objection as aforesaid has been allowed. order to the contrary,
V/59
Cap.103] INSOLVENTS
If petitioning 159. If the debt stated by the petitioning insolvent's estate not before come to the
creditor's debt creditor in his affidavit, or in his petition for knowledge of the assignees, shall be allowed
be not due, or
sequestration, and verified by affidavit to be five per centum thereupon, and such further
if act of
insolvency be due to him from any person, shall not be reward as the assignees, with the consent of
not proved, really due, or if, after a petition for the court, shall think fit to be paid out of
and petition be
sequestration filed, it shall not have been the estate recovered on such discovery.
Filed
fraudulently or proved that the person against whom such
maliciously, petition has been filed had committed an act 162. If any creditor of any insolvent Obtaining
court may of insolvency, and it shall also appear that shall obtain any sum of money, or any money, &c., to
order forbear
satisfaction such petition was filed fraudulently or property whatever, or security for money, opposition to
maliciously, the court shall and may, upon from any person as an inducement for or to consent
petition of the person against whom any forbearing to oppose or for consenting to to allowance
of, certificate
such, petition was so filed, examine into the the allowance of the certificate of such
same, and order satisfaction to be made to insolvent, or to forbear to petition for the
him for the damages by him sustained. recall of the same, every such creditor so
offending shall forfeit and lose for every Penalty.
Petitioning 160. If any petitioning creditor shall, such offence the treble value or amount of
creditor after the filing of his petition, receive any such money, property, or security so
compounding money, satisfaction, or security for his debt obtained (as the case may be).
with person
after or any part thereof, whereby such
insolvency to petitioning creditor may receive more for 163. Any person who shall insert or Inserting
forfeit his debt cause to be inserted in the Gazette, or in any advertisements
and pay the every ten rupees in respect of his debt than newspaper, any advertisement under this without
money, &c. the other creditors, such petitioning creditor authority.
Ordinance without authority, or knowing
shall forfeit his whole debt, and shall also
the same to be false in any material
repay or deliver up such money,
particular, shall be guilty of an offence, and
satisfaction, or security, or the full value
liable on conviction to punishment by fine
thereof, to the assignees of such insolvent
or imprisonment as the High Court shall
for the benefit of the creditors of the
award.
insolvent.
164. Sections 36 and 37 shall apply and Sections 36
Concealing 161. Any person who shall wilfully extend to State debtors as if the State had and 37 to apply
insolvent's conceal any real or personal estate of the to State
been specially mentioned in the said
effects. debtors.
insolvent, and who shall not, within forty-
sections,
two days after the filing of the petition for
sequestration, discover such estate to the
165. In this Ordinance, unless the Interpretation
court or to the assignees, shall forfeit the
context otherwise requires—
Penalty. sum of one thousand rupees, and double the
Allowance to value of the estate so concealed ; and any " registered attorney " means an attorney-
persons person, other than the person who shall at-law appointed under Chapter V
making
have concealed the same, who shall after of the Civil Procedure Code by a
discovery.
such time voluntarily discover to the court party or his recognized agent to act
or to the assignees any part of such on his behalf.
SCHEDULE
[Section 10.] Form A
THE INSOLVENCY ORDINANCE
DECLARATION OF INSOLVENCY
I, the undersigned A. &; of. .... .......... do hereby declare that I am unable to meet my engagements
with my creditors.
Dated at the hour of........ o'clock (in the forenoon, or at noon, or in the afternoon, as the case may be)
this. ..... .day of. ....... .19.....
Witness (Signed) A. B.
C.D.
V/60
