insolvents [cap. 103 and effects into money ; and within two order and disposition of himself and any co- months after the same shall be so-converted, assignee, or of either of them, any the same shall also be divided in manner unclaimed dividend or any such undivided aforesaid ; and if at the expiration of two surplus as aforesaid, such assignee shall, years from the filing of any petition for within three months next after the sequestration, there shall remain any expiration of one year from the time of the outstanding outstanding debts or other property due or declaration and order of payment of such debts, &c., may belonging to the estate of the insolvent, dividend, either pay the same to the creditor be sold, and which cannot, in the opinion of the court, or other the person entitled to the same, or the purchaser may sue for be collected and received without cause a certificate thereof to be filed in the them. unreasonable or inconvenient delay, it shall district court, containing a full and true be lawful for the assignees, under the account of the name of the creditor to direction, of the court, to sell and assign whom such unclaimed dividend is due, and such debts and other property, and also the of the amount of such dividend, and shall in books of the insolvent relating to his trade, like manner as to any undivided surplus as dealings, or estate, in such manner and aforesaid within three months next after the subject to such conditions as shall be expiration of one year after the final ordered by the court ; and any person to declaration of dividends, cause a certificate whom any of such debts shall be so sold or stating the full and true amount of such assigned, may sue for the same in his own surplus to be filed in the district court, and name as fully as the assignees of such every certificate to be filed as aforesaid shall insolvent might have done- be signed by the assignees filing the same, and every assignee shall, within one year remedy for 119. no action for any dividend shall be next after the filing of any such certificate as dividend. brought against any assignee by any creditor aforesaid, pay or cause to be paid into the who shall have proved under the treasury, to be carried to the account insolvency ; but if the assignees shall refuse intituled " the unclaimed dividend to pay any such dividend, the court may account ", the full amount of the unclaimed order payment thereof, with interest for the dividends mentioned in such certificate, or time that it shall have been withheld, and so much thereof as shall not have been then may also order the costs of the application, paid to the creditors or other persons and such order shall have the effect of a entitled thereto, and also the full amount of judgment by the said court. such undivided surplus as aforesaid : unclaimed dividends provided always that no certificate of any unclaimed 120. all unclaimed dividends, and also unclaimed dividends shall be filed until the dividends, &c,, any undivided surplus of an insolvent's expiration of one year after the declaration lo be paid into estate over and above the amount finally and order for payment of such dividends. the treasury. directed to be divided amongst the creditors of any insolvent, shall be paid into the treasury to be carried in the books of the allowances to the insolvent treasury to the account intituled " the unclaimed dividend account ", subject to 122. it shall be lawful for the district allowance to the order of the district court, acting in court, if it think fit, from time to time to insolvent for prosecution of any insolvency for the maintenance. make such allowance to the insolvent out of payment thereout of any dividend due to his estate, until he shall have passed his last any creditor. examination, as shall be necessary for the support of himself and his family : how 121. subject to any rule at any time in unclaimed force under this ordinance relating to dividends, &c., unclaimed dividends, if any assignee under in the hands of assignees to be any insolvency shall have, either in his own provided always that no such allowance disposed of. hands, or at any bank, or otherwise subject shall be made by the court for any period to his order or disposition, or shall know after the adjournment of the last that there is in the hands or subject to the examination sine die. v/51 cap.103] insolvents if estate pay 123. if the produce of the estate of any 126. the certificate of conformity effect of ten rupees for insolvent shall be sufficient to pay ten allowed under this ordinance, subject to the certificate. every ten rupees for every ten rupees of the liabilities, provisions herein contained, shall discharge rupees and interest, and interest as hereinafter mentioned, and the insolvent from all debts due by him surplus to be to leave a surplus, the court may order such when he became insolvent, and from all paid to surplus to be paid to such insolvent, his claims and demands made provable under insolvent. executors, administrators, or assigns ; and the insolvency : every such insolvent shall be entitled to recover the remainder, if any, of the debts provided always that no such certificate due to him ; but such surplus shall not be shall release or discharge any person who paid until all the creditors who have proved was a partner with such insolvent at the shall have received the interest due upon time of his insolvency, or was then jointly their debts. bound or had made any joint contract with such insolvent, or who was a surety for him. certificate of conformity 127. no insolvent shall be entitled to a certificate not mode of 124. forthwith after the insolvent shall certificate of conformity under this granted or void obtaining have passed his last examination the district ordinance, and any such certificate if if insolvent has certificate. concealed or court shall appoint a public sitting for the allowed shall be void, if such insolvent shall falsified books, allowance of his certificate (whereof and of after an act of insolvency, or in &c., the purport whereof twenty-one days' notice contemplation of insolvency, or with intent shall be given in the gazette and to the to defeat the object of this ordinance, have assignees), and at such sitting the assignees parted with, concealed, destroyed, altered, or any of the creditors of such insolvent mutilated, or falsified, or caused to be who shall have given to the secretary of the concealed, destroyed, altered, mutilated, or court three clear days' notice in writing of falsified, any of his books, papers, writings, his intention to oppose, may be heard or securities, or made or been privy to the against the allowance of such certificate, making of any false or fraudulent entry in and the court having regard to the any book of accounts or other document conformity of the insolvent to this with intent to defraud his creditors, or shall ordinance, and to his conduct as a trader, have concealed any part of his property, or or concealed or in relation to his estate, before as well as if any person having proved a false debt any property, or permitted after his insolvency, and whether the under the insolvency, such insolvent being any fictitious allowance of such certificate be opposed by privy thereto or afterwards knowing the debts to be any creditor or not, shall judge of any same, shall not have disclosed the same to proved. objection against allowing such certificate, his assignees within one month after such and either find the insolvent entitled thereto knowledge. and allow the same, or refuse or suspend the allowance thereof, or annex such conditions 128. any contract or security made or contract or thereto as the justice of the case may given by any insolvent or other person unto security to induce creditor require. or in trust for any creditor for securing the to forbear payment of any money due by such opposition form of 125. the certificate of conformity under insolvent at his insolvency, as a void. certificate. this ordinance shall be in writing under the consideration or with intent to persuade hand of the district judge, and shall certify such creditor to forbear opposing, or to that the insolvent has made a full discovery consent to the allowance of the insolvent's of his estate and effects and in all things certificate, or to forbear to petition for the conformed, and that so far as the court can recall of the same, shall be void, and the judge there does not appear any reason to money thereby secured or agreed to be paid question the truth or fulness of such shall not be recoverable. discovery (and shall be in the form q in the schedule, or to the like effect) ; and notice 129. at any time within six months after certificate may of the allowance of such certificate and of any certificate of conformity shall have been be recalled. the class thereof shall be advertised in the allowed, and subject to such order as to gazette in such manner as may be directed deposit of costs as may be made by the by the court. court of appeal, any creditor of the v/52 insolvents [cap.103 insolvent, or any assignee, may apply to the and abide the judgment of the court of court of appeal that such certificate may be appeal thereupon ; and upon any appeal recalled and delivered up to be cancelled ; duly entered and prosecuted relating to the and the court of appeal may, on good certificate or to the judgment of the court as cause shown, order such certificate to be to any offence under this ordinance charged recalled and cancelled. against the insolvent, the court of appeal shall have power to rescind or vary the insolvent not 130. no insolvent, after his certificate order of the district court, or to make such liable upon any shall have been allowed, shall be liable to other order thereon as it may think fit ; and promise to pay pay or satisfy any debt, claim, or demand, debt upon an order for the allowance of any discharged by from which he shall have been discharged certificate by the court of appeal, and certificate. by virtue of such certificate, or any part of whether with conditions or not, or after a such debt, claim, or demand, upon any suspension thereof by order of the court of contract, promise, or agreement made after appeal or not, such certificate may be the filing of the petition for sequestration of allowed and signed by the district judge or his estate. by two or more judges of the court of appeal. insolvent, 131. any insolvent who shall, after his having certificate shall have been allowed, be obtained his arrested or have any action brought against certificate, free 133. the allowance of the certificate by allowance, from arrest ; him for any debt, claim, or demand the district court, and any order for the refusal, or may plead his provable under his insolvency, shall be suspension of certificate ; refusal or suspension of the allowance discharged upon entering an appearance, certificate evidence under thereof (except in case of appeal), shall be (except in case it. and may plead in general that the cause of of appeal) to final and conclusive, and shall not be action accrued before he became insolvent, be final in what and may give this ordinance and the special revised by the district court, unless the said cases. matter in evidence ; and such insolvent's court shall thereafter see good and sufficient certificate shall be sufficient evidence of the cause to believe that the allowance of such insolvency, petition for sequestration, and certificate, or the refusal or suspension other proceedings precedent to the thereof, has been obtained on false evidence, insolvent, if in obtaining such certificate ; and if any such or by reason of an improper suppression of execution, insolvent shall be taken in execution or evidence, or has otherwise been fraudulently discharged. detained in prison for such debt, claim, or obtained, in any of which cases it shall and demand where judgment has been obtained may be lawful for the district court, upon before the allowance of his certificate, it the application of the insolvent, or of any shall be lawful for any judge of the court creditor of the insolvent, and subject to such wherein judgment has been so obtained, on order as to deposit of a sum for costs, and such insolvent's producing his certificate, to to such notices to the insolvent and to order any officer who shall have such creditors, by advertisement or otherwise, as insolvent in custody by virtue of such the court shall think fit, to grant a rehearing execution, to discharge such insolvent, and of the matter, and to rehear the same such officer shall be hereby indemnified for accordingly, and upon such rehearing, the so doing. district court shall make such order as to the allowance of the certificate, or the appeal against 132. no such certificate shall be refusal or suspension thereof, as the justice allowance or delivered to the insolvent until after the refusal of of the case may require, in like manner, expiration of the time allowed for entering certificate. upon like conditions, and having regard to an appeal ; and if an appeal be duly entered the like circumstances, so far as the case will against the judgment of such court for the admit, as upon any original hearing ; and in allowance of the certificate, or for the refusal, the withholding, or the class of the case the certificate shall have been certificate, and notice thereof be given to the previously allowed, and upon such court in such manner as may by any general rehearing, the allowance thereof shall not be rule or order to be made in pursuance of confirmed, such certificate shall have no this ordinance be directed, the certificate force or effect whatever, and the same shall shall be further kept by the court, be delivered up to the court and cancelled. v/53