INSOLVENTS [Cap. 103
and effects into money ; and within two order and disposition of himself and any co-
months after the same shall be so-converted, assignee, or of either of them, any
the same shall also be divided in manner unclaimed dividend or any such undivided
aforesaid ; and if at the expiration of two surplus as aforesaid, such assignee shall,
years from the filing of any petition for within three months next after the
sequestration, there shall remain any expiration of one year from the time of the
Outstanding outstanding debts or other property due or declaration and order of payment of such
debts, &c., may belonging to the estate of the insolvent, dividend, either pay the same to the creditor
be sold, and
which cannot, in the opinion of the court, or other the person entitled to the same, or
the purchaser
may sue for be collected and received without cause a certificate thereof to be filed in the
them. unreasonable or inconvenient delay, it shall District Court, containing a full and true
be lawful for the assignees, under the account of the name of the creditor to
direction, of the court, to sell and assign whom such unclaimed dividend is due, and
such debts and other property, and also the of the amount of such dividend, and shall in
books of the insolvent relating to his trade, like manner as to any undivided surplus as
dealings, or estate, in such manner and aforesaid within three months next after the
subject to such conditions as shall be expiration of one year after the final
ordered by the court ; and any person to declaration of dividends, cause a certificate
whom any of such debts shall be so sold or stating the full and true amount of such
assigned, may sue for the same in his own surplus to be filed in the District Court, and
name as fully as the assignees of such every certificate to be filed as aforesaid shall
insolvent might have done- be signed by the assignees filing the same,
and every assignee shall, within one year
Remedy for 119. No action for any dividend shall be next after the filing of any such certificate as
dividend. brought against any assignee by any creditor aforesaid, pay or cause to be paid into the
who shall have proved under the Treasury, to be carried to the account
insolvency ; but if the assignees shall refuse intituled " The Unclaimed Dividend
to pay any such dividend, the court may Account ", the full amount of the unclaimed
order payment thereof, with interest for the dividends mentioned in such certificate, or
time that it shall have been withheld, and so much thereof as shall not have been then
may also order the costs of the application, paid to the creditors or other persons
and such order shall have the effect of a entitled thereto, and also the full amount of
judgment by the said court. such undivided surplus as aforesaid :
UNCLAIMED DIVIDENDS
Provided always that no certificate of any
Unclaimed 120. All unclaimed dividends, and also unclaimed dividends shall be filed until the
dividends, &c,, any undivided surplus of an insolvent's expiration of one year after the declaration
lo be paid into
estate over and above the amount finally and order for payment of such dividends.
the Treasury.
directed to be divided amongst the creditors
of any insolvent, shall be paid into the
Treasury to be carried in the books of the
ALLOWANCES TO THE INSOLVENT
Treasury to the account intituled " The
Unclaimed Dividend Account ", subject to
122. It shall be lawful for the District Allowance to
the order of the District Court, acting in
Court, if it think fit, from time to time to insolvent for
prosecution of any insolvency for the maintenance.
make such allowance to the insolvent out of
payment thereout of any dividend due to
his estate, until he shall have passed his last
any creditor.
examination, as shall be necessary for the
Support of himself and his family :
How 121. Subject to any rule at any time in
unclaimed force under this Ordinance relating to
dividends, &c.,
unclaimed dividends, if any assignee under
in the hands of
assignees to be any insolvency shall have, either in his own Provided always that no such allowance
disposed of. hands, or at any bank, or otherwise subject shall be made by the court for any period
to his order or disposition, or shall know after the adjournment of the last
that there is in the hands or subject to the examination sine die.
V/51
Cap.103] INSOLVENTS
If estate pay 123. If the produce of the estate of any 126. The certificate of conformity Effect of
ten rupees for insolvent shall be sufficient to pay ten allowed under this Ordinance, subject to the certificate.
every ten
rupees for every ten rupees of the liabilities, provisions herein contained, shall discharge
rupees and
interest, and interest as hereinafter mentioned, and the insolvent from all debts due by him
surplus to be to leave a surplus, the court may order such when he became insolvent, and from all
paid to
surplus to be paid to such insolvent, his claims and demands made provable under
insolvent.
executors, administrators, or assigns ; and the insolvency :
every such insolvent shall be entitled to
recover the remainder, if any, of the debts Provided always that no such certificate
due to him ; but such surplus shall not be shall release or discharge any person who
paid until all the creditors who have proved was a partner with such insolvent at the
shall have received the interest due upon time of his insolvency, or was then jointly
their debts. bound or had made any joint contract with
such insolvent, or who was a surety for him.
CERTIFICATE OF CONFORMITY
127. No insolvent shall be entitled to a Certificate not
Mode of 124. Forthwith after the insolvent shall certificate of conformity under this granted or void
obtaining have passed his last examination the District Ordinance, and any such certificate if if insolvent has
certificate. concealed or
Court shall appoint a public sitting for the allowed shall be void, if such insolvent shall falsified books,
allowance of his certificate (whereof and of after an act of insolvency, or in &c.,
the purport whereof twenty-one days' notice contemplation of insolvency, or with intent
shall be given in the Gazette and to the to defeat the object of this Ordinance, have
assignees), and at such sitting the assignees parted with, concealed, destroyed, altered,
or any of the creditors of such insolvent mutilated, or falsified, or caused to be
who shall have given to the secretary of the concealed, destroyed, altered, mutilated, or
court three clear days' notice in writing of falsified, any of his books, papers, writings,
his intention to oppose, may be heard or securities, or made or been privy to the
against the allowance of such certificate, making of any false or fraudulent entry in
and the court having regard to the any book of accounts or other document
conformity of the insolvent to this with intent to defraud his creditors, or shall
Ordinance, and to his conduct as a trader, have concealed any part of his property, or or concealed
or in relation to his estate, before as well as if any person having proved a false debt any property,
or permitted
after his insolvency, and whether the under the insolvency, such insolvent being
any fictitious
allowance of such certificate be opposed by privy thereto or afterwards knowing the debts to be
any creditor or not, shall judge of any same, shall not have disclosed the same to proved.
objection against allowing such certificate, his assignees within one month after such
and either find the insolvent entitled thereto knowledge.
and allow the same, or refuse or suspend the
allowance thereof, or annex such conditions 128. Any contract or security made or Contract or
thereto as the justice of the case may given by any insolvent or other person unto security to
induce creditor
require. or in trust for any creditor for securing the
to forbear
payment of any money due by such opposition
Form of 125. The certificate of conformity under insolvent at his insolvency, as a void.
certificate. this Ordinance shall be in writing under the consideration or with intent to persuade
hand of the District Judge, and shall certify such creditor to forbear opposing, or to
that the insolvent has made a full discovery consent to the allowance of the insolvent's
of his estate and effects and in all things certificate, or to forbear to petition for the
conformed, and that so far as the court can recall of the same, shall be void, and the
judge there does not appear any reason to money thereby secured or agreed to be paid
question the truth or fulness of such shall not be recoverable.
discovery (and shall be in the form Q in the
Schedule, or to the like effect) ; and notice 129. At any time within six months after Certificate may
of the allowance of such certificate and of any certificate of conformity shall have been be recalled.
the class thereof shall be advertised in the allowed, and subject to such order as to
Gazette in such manner as may be directed deposit of costs as may be made by the
by the court. Court of Appeal, any creditor of the
V/52
INSOLVENTS [Cap.103
insolvent, or any assignee, may apply to the and abide the judgment of the Court of
Court of Appeal that such certificate may be Appeal thereupon ; and upon any appeal
recalled and delivered up to be cancelled ; duly entered and prosecuted relating to the
and the Court of Appeal may, on good certificate or to the judgment of the court as
cause shown, order such certificate to be to any offence under this Ordinance charged
recalled and cancelled. against the insolvent, the Court of Appeal
shall have power to rescind or vary the
Insolvent not 130. No insolvent, after his certificate order of the District Court, or to make such
liable upon any shall have been allowed, shall be liable to
other order thereon as it may think fit ; and
promise to pay
pay or satisfy any debt, claim, or demand,
debt upon an order for the allowance of any
discharged by from which he shall have been discharged
certificate by the Court of Appeal, and
certificate. by virtue of such certificate, or any part of
whether with conditions or not, or after a
such debt, claim, or demand, upon any
suspension thereof by order of the Court of
contract, promise, or agreement made after
Appeal or not, such certificate may be
the filing of the petition for sequestration of
allowed and signed by the District Judge or
his estate.
by two or more Judges of the Court of
Appeal.
Insolvent, 131. Any insolvent who shall, after his
having certificate shall have been allowed, be
obtained his
arrested or have any action brought against
certificate, free 133. The allowance of the certificate by Allowance,
from arrest ; him for any debt, claim, or demand
the District Court, and any order for the refusal, or
may plead his provable under his insolvency, shall be suspension of
certificate ; refusal or suspension of the allowance
discharged upon entering an appearance, certificate
evidence under
thereof (except in case of appeal), shall be (except in case
it. and may plead in general that the cause of
of appeal) to
final and conclusive, and shall not be
action accrued before he became insolvent, be final in what
and may give this Ordinance and the special revised by the District Court, unless the said cases.
matter in evidence ; and such insolvent's court shall thereafter see good and sufficient
certificate shall be sufficient evidence of the cause to believe that the allowance of such
insolvency, petition for sequestration, and certificate, or the refusal or suspension
other proceedings precedent to the thereof, has been obtained on false evidence,
Insolvent, if in obtaining such certificate ; and if any such or by reason of an improper suppression of
execution, insolvent shall be taken in execution or evidence, or has otherwise been fraudulently
discharged.
detained in prison for such debt, claim, or obtained, in any of which cases it shall and
demand where judgment has been obtained may be lawful for the District Court, upon
before the allowance of his certificate, it the application of the insolvent, or of any
shall be lawful for any Judge of the court creditor of the insolvent, and subject to such
wherein judgment has been so obtained, on order as to deposit of a sum for costs, and
such insolvent's producing his certificate, to
to such notices to the insolvent and to
order any officer who shall have such
creditors, by advertisement or otherwise, as
insolvent in custody by virtue of such
the court shall think fit, to grant a rehearing
execution, to discharge such insolvent, and
of the matter, and to rehear the same
such officer shall be hereby indemnified for
accordingly, and upon such rehearing, the
so doing.
District Court shall make such order as to
the allowance of the certificate, or the
Appeal against 132. No such certificate shall be
refusal or suspension thereof, as the justice
allowance or delivered to the insolvent until after the
refusal of of the case may require, in like manner,
expiration of the time allowed for entering
certificate.
upon like conditions, and having regard to
an appeal ; and if an appeal be duly entered
the like circumstances, so far as the case will
against the judgment of such court for the
admit, as upon any original hearing ; and in
allowance of the certificate, or for the
refusal, the withholding, or the class of the case the certificate shall have been
certificate, and notice thereof be given to the previously allowed, and upon such
court in such manner as may by any general rehearing, the allowance thereof shall not be
rule or order to be made in pursuance of confirmed, such certificate shall have no
this Ordinance be directed, the certificate force or effect whatever, and the same shall
shall be further kept by the court, be delivered up to the court and cancelled.
V/53
