CHAPTER 103
INSOLVENTS
Ordinances AN ORDINANCE TO PROVIDE FOR THE DUE COLLECTION, ADMINISTRATION, AND
Nos 7 of 1853, DISTRIBUTION OF INSOLVENT ESTATES.
24 of 1884.
[2nd July. 1854.]
Short title. 1. This Ordinance may be cited as the 4. The several District Courts District Courts
Insolvency Ordinance. ' throughout Sri Lanka shall be courts for the to be auxiliary
to each other
administration of insolvent estates under
for proof of
this Ordinance, and shall be auxiliary to debts and
Cessio 2. It shall not be lawful for any person each other for proof of debts and for the taking
bonorum to obtain from any court within Sri Lanka, examinations.
abolished. examination of persons or witnesses in all
or for any such court to grant to any
matters under this Ordinance, or for any or
person, the benefit or relief of cession of
either of such purposes :
goods and property commonly called the
cessio bonorum, as heretofore known to and
Provided that all such examinations shall
allowed by the Roman-Dutch law in force
be taken down in writing, and shall be
within Sri Lanka:
transmitted to the court in which the
petition for sequestration is being
Provided that nothing herein contained prosecuted, and shall be annexed to and
shall be deemed or taken to affect in any form part of the proceedings in the matter
way the estate or condition of any person to to which the same shall relate, and that no
whom before the commencement of this such examination shall be taken without the
Ordinance the said benefit or relief shall request in writing of the Judge of the
have been duly granted, which estate shall District Court before whom the matter is
be administered, and which condition shall being prosecuted.
be judged of, as if this Ordinance had not
been enacted. 5. All decisions and orders of the Appeals to
District Courts made under the authority of Court of
Appeal.
this Ordinance shall be subject to an appeal
Judges may 3. The Judges of the Supreme Court
to the Court of Appeal.
make rules. may from time to time make such rules and
orders as they may think fit for the better
ACTS OF INSOLVENCY IN GENERAL
carrying of this Ordinance into effect, and
generally for regulating the practice of the
7.* If any person residing in Sri Lanka Acts of
District Court and the forms of proceedings
or having any property, real or personal, insolvency.
under this Ordinance in all insolvency
therein, shall depart therefrom, or being out
matters not provided for in this Ordinance.:
of Sri Lanka shall remain abroad, or shall
depart from his dwelling house, or otherwise
Provided that such rules and orders shall absent himself, or begin to keep his house,
not be inconsistent with or repugnant to the or suffer himself to be arrested or taken in
provisions of this Ordinance, and that no execution for any debt not due, or yield
such rules or orders shall be of any force or himself to prison, or procure himself to be
effect until they shall have been laid before arrested or taken in execution, or his goods,
Parliament and notified in the Gazette in money, lands, or other property to be
manner provided in Article 136 of the attached, sequestered, or taken in execution,
Constitution. or make or cause to be made, either in Sri Lanka
* Section 6 is omitted from this Edition, as the procedure relating to appeals is now regulated by the Civil
Procedure Code.
V/27
Cap.103] INSOLVENTS
or elsewhere, any fraudulent grant, form A in the Schedule signed by such
conveyance, or mortgage of any of his lands person and attested by an attorney-at-law,
or goods, or make or cause to be made any or some other witness, that he is unable to
meet his engagements, every such person
fraudulent gift, delivery, or transfer of any
shall be deemed thereby to have committed
of his goods or other property, every such
an act of insolvency at the time of filing
person doing, suffering, procuring,
such declaration, provided a petition for
executing, permitting, making, or causing to
sequestration of his estate shall be filed by
be made any of the acts, deeds, or matters
or against such person within two months
aforesaid, with intent to defeat or delay his from the filing of such declaration.
creditors, shall be deemed to have thereby
committed an act of insolvency. 11. If any person, after the filing of any Compounding
Conveyance by 8. If any person shall execute any
petition for seque
,
stration
. .
o
.
f his esta
,.
t e, shall w
pe
it
t
h
it
,
i on
,
ing
a person of all conveyance or assignment by deed of all his pay money to the petitioning creditor, or creditor an act
his property to property to a trustee or trustees for the give or deliver to such petitioning creditor of insolvency
trustees not an any satisfaction or security for his debt or
benefit of all the creditors of such person,
act of
any part thereof, whereby such petitioning
insolvency, the execution of such deed shall not be
unless petition deemed an act of insolvency, unless a creditor may receive more for every ten
for petition for sequestration of the estate of rupees in respect of his debt than the other
sequestration is
filed within such person be filed within three months creditors, such payment, gift, delivery,
three months. from the execution thereof: satisfaction or security shall be an act of
insolvency; and if adjudication that such
Provided such deed shall be executed by
estate be sequestered shall have been made
every such trustee within fifteen days after
upon such petition, the court may either
the execution thereof by such first-
declare such adjudication to be valid, and
mentioned person, and notice thereof be
direct the same to be proceeded in, or may
given within one month after the execution
order it to be annulled, and a petition or
thereof by such first-mentioned person in
new petition for sequestration may be filed,
the Gazette and in some newspaper
published in Colombo; and such notice and such petition or new petition may be
shall contain the date and execution of such supported either by proof of such last-
deed and the name and place of abode of mentioned or any other act of insolvency.
every such trustee.
12. If any plaintiff shall recover Defendant not
Lying in prison 9. If any person having been arrested or judgment in any action for the recovery of paying,
for twenty-one committed to prison for debt or on any securing, or
days, and attachment for non-payment of money any debt or money demand in any court in compounding
escaping out of shall, upon such or any other arrest or Sri Lanka against any person residing for a judgment
prison, acts of within the same, and shall be in a situation debt within
insolvency. commitment for debt or non-payment of thirty days
to sue out execution upon such judgment,
money, or upon any detention for debt, lie after notice an
in prison for twenty-one days, or having and there be nothing due from such plaintiff act of
been arrested or committed to prison for by way of set-off against such judgment, insolvency.
any other cause shall lie in prison for and the defendant shall not within thirty
twenty-one days after any writ of execution days after notice in writing personally
issued against him and not discharged, every served upon such defendant requiring
such person shall thereby be deemed to have immediate payment of such judgment-debt,
committed an act of insolvency; or if any pay, secure, or compound for the same to
such person having been arrested, the satisfaction of such plaintiff, every such
committed, or detained for debt shall escape defendant shall be deemed to. have
out of prison or custody, every such person committed an act of insolvency on the
shall be deemed to have thereby committed thirty-first day after service of such notice:
an act of insolvency from the time of such
arrest, commitment, or detention. Provided that if such execution shall in
the meantime be suspended or restrained by
Filing 10. If any person residing in Sri Lanka
declaration of shall file in the District Court of the district any rule, order, or proceeding of any court
insolvency an in which he shall have resided or carried on having jurisdiction in that behalf, no further
act of
business for six months next immediately proceeding shall be had on such notice, but
insolvency.
preceding a declaration in writing in the it shall be lawful nevertheless for such
V/28
