INSOLVENTS [Cap.103
merely of increasing the number of votes at might according to the laws of Sri Lanka
the election for assignees and thereby have disposed, and all such lands in Sri
influencing the same, or to have undertaken Lanka as he shall purchase, or as shall
to share with any creditor of the insolvent, descend, be devised, revert to, or come to
in return for his vote, the commission or such insolvent before he shall have obtained
remuneration to be awarded to him as such his certificate, and all deeds, papers, and
assignee, the court shall declare such writings respecting the same, shall become
assignee to have forfeited the office of such absolutely vested in the assignees for the
assignee in regard to the insolvent estate for time being, for the benefit of the
which he shall have been elected, and to be creditors'of the insolvent, by virtue of their
incapable of being again elected thereto; appointment, without any deed of
and it shall be lawful for such court, if it conveyance for that purpose, and as often as
•should so think fit, to further declare that any such assignee shall die or be lawfully
the person so offending shall be incapable of removed or displaced, and a new assignee
being elected an assignee under the shall be duly appointed, such of the
provisions of this Ordinance for and during aforesaid real estate as shall remain unsold
his natural life, or for such period as such or unconveyed, shall, by virtue of such
court shall determine and adjudge ; and any appointment, vest in the new assignee, either
person interested in the due administration alone or jointly with the existing assignees,
of the insolvent estate may apply by motion as the case may require, without any
to such court to declare any such assignee to conveyance for that purpose.
have forfeited his office by reason of any
such misconduct as aforesaid ; and as often
72. If the assignees of the estate and Insolvent not
as a vacancy in the office of assignee shall
effects of any insolvent having or being liable to rents
be created by any such forfeiture, the court or covenants in
entitled to any land under a conveyance to
declaring the same shall order a new conveyances,
him, or under an agreement for any such leases, &c., if
assignee to be chosen by the creditors, and
conveyance, subject to any perpetual yearly assignees
the same proceedings shall be had thereon rent reserved by such conveyance or accept the
as on the original election of assignees. same.
agreement, or having or. being entitled to
any lease or agreement for a lease, shall
Movable 70. When any person shall have been
property to adjudged an insolvent, all his personal estate elect to take such land, or the benefit of
vest in such conveyance or agreement, or such lease
and effects, present and future, wheresoever
assignees.
or agreement for a lease, as the case may be,
the same may be found or known, and all
the insolvent shall not be liable to pay any
property which he may purchase, or which
rent accruing after the filing of the petition
may revert, descend, be devised or
for sequestration of his estate against him,
bequeathed, or come to him before he shall
or to be sued in respect of any subsequent
have obtained his certificate, and all debts
non-observance or non-performance of the
due or to be due to him, wheresoever the
conditions, covenants, or agreements in any
same may be found or known, and the
such conveyance or agreement, or lease or
property, right, and interest in such debts,
shall become absolutely vested in the agreement for a lease; and if the assignees How if
shall decline to take such land, or the assignees
assignees for the time being, for the benefit
decline.
benefit of such conveyance or agreement or
of the creditors of the insolvent, by virtue of
lease or agreement for lease, the insolvent
their appointment; and after such
shall not be liable if, within fourteen days
appointment neither the insolvent nor any
after he shall have had notice that the
person claiming through or under him shall
assignees have declined, he shall deliver up
have power to recover the same, nor to
such conveyance or agreement or lease or
make any release or discharge thereof; but
agreement for lease to the person then
such assignees shall have like remedy to
entitled to the rent, or having so agreed to
recover the same in their own names as the
insolvent himself might have had if he had •lease, as the case may be; and if the How assignees
assignees shall not (upon being thereto compelled to
not been adjudged insolvent.
elect.
required) elect whether they will accept or
Immovable 71. When any person shall have been decline such land or conveyance or
property to adjudged an insolvent, all lands in Sri agreement for conveyance, or such lease
vest in
Lanka to which any insolvent is entitled, or agreement for a lease, any person entitled
assignees.
and all interest to which such insolvent is to such rent, or having so conveyed or
entitled in any such lands, and of which he agreed to convey, or leased or agreed to
V/41
Cap. 103] INSOLVENTS
lease, or any person claiming under him, money or other performance, according to
shall be entitled to apply to the District such condition, as fully as the insolvent
Court, and the District Court may order might have done, and after such tender,
them to elect and deliver up such payment, or performance such real or
conveyance or agreement for conveyance or personal estate may be sold and disposed of
lease, or agreement for lease, in case they for the benefit of the creditors.
shall decline the same, and the possession of
the premises, or may make such other order 77. In every case the assignees may, with Assignees may
the approbation of the District Court, appoint the
therein as it shall think fit.
insolvent to
appoint the insolvent himself to superintend
manage the
the management of the estate or to carry on
Assignees how 73. If any insolvent shall have entered estate.
the trade of such insolvent for behoof of the
compelled to into any agreement for the purchase of any
elect whether creditors, and in all or any other respects
estate or interest in land, the vendor thereof,
they will abide they may think fit to aid them in
or any person claiming under him, if the
by or decline
administering the insolvent's estate and
agreement for assignees shall not (upon being thereto
the purchase of required) elect whether they will abide by effects, in such manner and on such terms as
land. they may think best for the benefit of the
and execute such agreement or abandon the
persons interested in the estate.
same, may apply to the District Court, and
the court may thereupon order them to 78. The assignees shall be subject to the Assignees to
deliver up the agreement and the possession orders of the District Court in their conduct subject to
of the premises to the vendor or person as assignees; and it shall be lawful for the orders of the
court.
claiming under him, or may make such court at all times to summon the assignees,
other order therein as such court shall think and require them to produce all books,
fit. papers, deeds, writings, and other
documents relating to the insolvency in their
Assignees may 74. All powers vested in any insolvent
possession, and to direct them to pay and
execute power which he might legally execute for his own
deliver over to the court all moneys, books,
vested in the
benefit may be executed by the assignees for
insolvent. papers, deeds, writings, and other
the benefit of the creditors in such manner
documents which may have come to their
as the insolvent might have executed the
possession or custody as such assignees.
same.
79. If any person adjudged insolvent Where one of
Court may 75. It shall be lawful for the District shall at the time of the adjudication of firm is
order insolvent Court, upon the application of the assignees insolvency be a member of a firm, it shall be insolvent, the
to join in court may
or of any purchaser from them of any part lawful for the District Court to authorize
conveyances. authorize
of the insolvent's estate, if such insolvent the assignees, upon their application to action in name
shall not try the validity of the adjudication, commence or prosecute any action in the of the assignee;
or if there shall have been a judgment name of such assignees and of the remaining and of the
other partner.
establishing its validity, to order the partner against any debtor of the
insolvent to join in any conveyance of such partnership, and such judgment, decree, or
estate or any part thereof; and if he shall order may be obtained therein as if such
not execute any such conveyance within the action had been instituted with the consent
time directed by the order, such insolvent of such partner, and if such partner shall
and all persons claiming under him shall be execute any release of the debt or demand
stopped from objecting to the validity of for which such action is instituted such
such conveyance, and all estate, right, or release shall be void :
title which such insolvent had therein shall
be as effectually barred by such order as if Provided that every such partner shall Partner to have
such conveyance had been executed by him. have notice given him of such application, notice, and
and be at liberty to show cause against it, may show
cause.
Property 76. If any insolvent shall have granted, and if no benefit be claimed by him by
mortgaged or conveyed, assured, or pledged any real or virtue of the said proceedings shall be
pledged may be
personal estate, or deposited any deeds, "indemnified against the payment of any
redeemed by
the assignees. such grant, conveyance, assurance, pledge, costs in respect of such action in such
or deposit being upon condition or power of manner as the court may direct; and it shall
redemption at a future day by payment of be lawful for such court, upon the
money or otherwise, the assignees may, application of such partner, to direct that he
before the time of the performance of such may receive so much of the proceeds of such
condition, make tender or payment of action as such court shall direct.
V/42
INSOLVENTS [Cap.103
As to sale of 80. The assignees shall, subject to the creditors, or any proportion of them as the
estates by directions of the creditors given at any court shall think fit to direct, the assignees
assignees,
meeting of such creditors, forthwith proceed may take such reasonable part of any debt
conditions of
sale, &c. to make sale of all the property belonging due to the insolvent's estate as may by
to the insolvent, real and personal, giving composition be obtained, or may give time
due notice thereof in the Gazette, and also or take security for the payment of such and refer
such other notice as they shall think fit: debts, and may, with like leave of the court, disputes to
arbitrators.
submit to arbitration any difference or
Provided that from the sale of the said dispute between the assignees and any other
personal property shall be excepted, until person for or on account or by reason of
the creditors shall determine thereon, the
anything relating to the estate and effects of
wearing apparel, bedding, household the insolvent.
furniture, and tools of trade of the insolvent
and his family ; and 83. If the assignees shall agree in Reference to
manner aforesaid to refer any matter in arbitration
Provided that the sale of all real property dispute to arbitration, such agreement of may be made a
rule of court.
shall take place in such manner and under reference may be made a rule of court,
such conditions as shall be determined on whether such agreement contain a clause to
by the greater part in number and value of that effect or not.
the creditors present at any meeting duly
summoned; 84. All persons from whom the If petition or
assignees shall have recovered any real or adjudication be
annulled, &c.,
Provided, however, that such conditions personal estate, either by judgment or
persons from
shall be subject to the approval or decree, are hereby discharged, in case the
whom the
disapproval of the District Court on the petition for sequestration or the assignees have
application of any person interested therein. adjudication of insolvency thereunder be recovered, or
who have bona
afterwards annulled or dismissed, from all
fide paid the
As to wearing 81. It shall be lawful for the assignees, demands which may thereafter be made in assignees, &c.,
apparel, tools, with the consent of the greater part in
respect of the same by the person against discharged
&c., of
number and value of the creditors who shall from claims by
insolvent. whom such adjudication was made, and all
have proved their debts present at any the insolvent.
persons claiming under him ; and all persons
meeting of creditors whereof, and of the who shall, without action, bona fide deliver
purpose of which ten days' notice shall have
up possession of any real or personal estate
been given in the Gazette, to permit the
to the assignees, or pay any debt claimed by
insolvent to retain, for his own use, the
them, are hereby discharged from all claim
whole or such part of his wearing apparel,
of any such person as aforesaid in respect of
bedding, household furniture and tools of
the same, or any person claiming under
trade excepted from the sale of his personal
him;
property, as the said creditors shall agree to
allow to the said insolvent: Provided the person so delivering up any
real or personal estate, or paying any debt,
Provided that every such permission shall shall not have had notice of an action or
be subject to the approval or disapproval of other proceeding to dispute or annul the
the District Court on the application of any petition for sequestration or adjudication
person interested in the due administration thereunder, and such action or other
of the estate. proceeding shall not have been commenced
and prosecuted within the time and in
Assignees, with 82. The assignees, with the leave of the
manner allowed by this Ordinance-
leave of the District Court first obtained, upon
court, may
application to such court, but not otherwise, 85. If any assignee, indebted to the Assignee
bring or defend
may commence, prosecute, or defend any estate of which he is such assignee in respect indebted to the
actions;
action which the insolvent might have of money, being part of the estate of the estate
becoming
commenced and prosecuted or defended, insolvent retained or employed by him,
insolvent, his
and in such case the costs to which they may become insolvent, and obtain his certificate, future property
be put in respect of such action shall be it shall have the effect only of freeing his liable,
allowed out of the proceeds of the estate person from arrest and imprisonment, but
and effects of the insolvent; and with his future effects, (his tools of trade,
may compound like leave of the court, after notice to the necessary household goods, and the
debts; creditors, and subject to such condition necessary wearing apparel of himself, his
(if any) as to obtaining the consent of wife, and children excepted,) shall remain
V/43
