Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024 1
[Certified on 10th of April, 2024]
L.D.-O. 42/2023
AN ACT TO AMEND THE BANKING ACT, NO. 30 OF 1988
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Banking (Amendment) Short title and
Act, No. 24 of 2024. date of
operation
(2) The provisions of this Act shall come into operation
on such date as the Minister may appoint by Order published
in the Gazette (in this Act referred to as the “appointed date”).
2. Section 2 of the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 Amendment of
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby section 2 of Act,
amended in subsection (6) thereof by the substitution for No. 30 of 1988
the words “shall not include the Central Bank or a private
company” of the words “shall not include the Central Bank,
a shell bank or a private company”.
3. The following section is hereby inserted immediately Insertion of
after section 2 of the principal enactment and shall have section 2A in the
effect as section 2A of that enactment:- principal
enactment
“Eligibility 2A. The following matters shall be taken into
criteria to consideration by the Central Bank in
apply for a determining whether a company is eligible to
licence
apply for a licence under this Act:-
(a) compliance with the initial capital
requirements as may be determined by
the Central Bank, from time to time;
(b) the nature and adequacy of the financial
resources as a means of continuing
financial support for the licensed
commercial bank to be established in
Sri Lanka;
2 Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024
(c) the capital and other funding sources
shall not derive from unlawful
activities;
(d) suitability of material shareholders in
terms of subsection (1B) of section 12;
(e) fitness and propriety of directors, chief
executive officer and officers
performing executive functions or any
other person proposed to be appointed
to any of the above positions, as the
case may be, in terms of the criteria set
out in subsection (2) of section 42;
(f) track record for operating in a manner
consistent with the standards of good
governance and integrity;
(g) transparency in ownership structure and
the beneficial ownership;
(h) establishment of a licensed commercial
bank in Sri Lanka will be in the interest
of the viability and stability of the
banking system and the interest of the
national economy; and
(i) compliance with any other requirements
under this Act or any other written law
in Sri Lanka or outside Sri Lanka.”.
Amendment of 4. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
section 3 of the as follows:-
principal
enactment
(1) in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for the
words “in such manner” of the words “in such
manner along with the application fee”; and
(2) in subsection (2) thereof, by the repeal of
subparagraph (iii) of paragraph (b) and the
substitution therefor, of the following:-
Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024 3
“(iii) a copy of the audited financial statements of
the company for the preceding three years;”.
5. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amended Amendment of
as follows:- section 4 of the
principal
enactment
(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following:-
“(1) The Central Bank may require any company
or body corporate incorporated outside Sri Lanka,
which has applied for a licence under section 3, to
carry out banking business through a branch
thereof, to undertake to remit to Sri Lanka, prior to
the commencement of its business in Sri Lanka, a
sum of money determined in United States Dollars,
or its equivalent in any designated foreign currency.
The amount so remitted may form part of the
assigned capital of such company or body corporate
and shall be kept as a deposit with the Central Bank
or in such other manner as may be determined, from
time to time, by the Central Bank.”;
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (3)
thereof, of the following: -
“(4) Without prejudice to the provisions of
subsection (1), the Central Bank may, having regard
to the soundness of the financial position, risk
management, governance structure, capital
adequacy and availability of liquidity, require any
company or body corporate specified in subsection
(1) to establish within Sri Lanka as a subsidiary of
its parent company or principal body corporate to
be issued with a licence to carry on banking
business in Sri Lanka.
