Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024 39
(7) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression “local authority” of the following:-
““Minister” means the Minister assigned the
subject of Finance in terms of Article 44
or 45 of the Constitution;”;
(8) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression “Monetary Board” of the following:-
““non-financial subsidiary” means a subsidiary
of a licensed commercial bank or a licensed
specialised bank which carries out the
business other than the business of a
‘financial sector participant’ as defined in
the Central Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No.16
of 2023;”;
(9) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression “non-resident” of the following:-
““offshore banking business” means the
provision of banking business by a
licensed commercial bank in any
designated foreign currency to non-
residents, and to certain residents as may
be determined by the Central Bank, from
time to time;
“physical presence” means meaningful mind
and management located within a country
and does not include simple or mere
existence of a local agent or low-level staff
of such country; ”;
(10) by the insertion immediately after the definition
“resident” of the following: -
40 Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024
““shareholder” shall have the same meaning as
given in the Companies Act, No. 07 of
2007;
“shell bank” means a bank that has no physical
presence in the country in which it is
incorporated and licensed, and which is
unaffiliated with a financial group that is
subject to effective consolidated
supervision;”;
(11) in the definition of the expression “substantial
interest” by the substitution for the words “on
behalf of such firm.” of the words “on behalf of
such firm;”; and
(12) by the addition immediately after the definition of
the expression “substantial interest” of the
following: -
““unlawful activity” shall have the same
meaning as given in the Prevention of
Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006.”
Amendment of 47. Schedule II of the principal enactment is hereby
Schedule II of amended as follows:-
the principal
enactment
(1) in item (z) thereof, by the substitution for the words
“to the buyer.” of the words “to the buyer;”; and
(2) by the addition immediately after item (z), the
following:-
“(aa) conducting offshore banking business.”.
Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024 41
48. Notwithstanding the repeal of subsection (3C) of Special
section 76M of the principal enactment by this Act, any provision
relating to the
Scheme formulated by the Monetary Board under subsection
Schemes
(3C) of that section shall continue to be in force until the formulated by
liabilities of depositors and creditors of the defaulting bank the Monetary
Board under
referred to in that subsection are settled in full in accordance
section 76M
with the terms and conditions of such Scheme.
49. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala Sinhala text to
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail. prevail in case of
inconsistency
42 Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024
English Acts of the Parliament D c E a P n A R b T e M E p N u T r c O h F a G s O e V d E R a N t M t E h N e T “ P P RIRNATKINAGSHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.
