30 Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024
Repeal of Part 29. Part VIIA of the principal enactment is hereby
VIIA of the repealed.
principal
enactment
Repeal of 30. Section 50 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 50 of the
repealed.
principal
enactment
Amendment of 31. Section 55 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 55 of the amended as follows:-
principal
enactment
(1) by the substitution for the words and figure “in
section 54 the name of such bank shall be removed
from the list of licensed commercial banks and” of
the words and figure “in section 54”;
(2) in paragraph (c) thereof, by the substitution for the
words and figure “in accordance with section 72.”
of the words and figure “in accordance with section
72; and”;
(3) by the addition immediately after paragraph (c)
thereof, of the following:-
“(d) all monies or other articles held in a safe
deposit box which have not been paid or
returned to the rightful owners under section
54, have been transferred to a special account
of the Central Bank or are disposed in
accordance with the directions issued by the
Central Bank for such purpose, as the case
may be.”;
(4) by the repeal of the marginal note to that section,
and the substitution therefor of the following:-
Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024 31
“Distribution of the outstanding
assets among the owners of the
licensed commercial bank”.
32. Section 56 of the principal enactment is hereby Replacement of
repealed and the following is substituted therefor:- section 56 of the
principal
“Cancellation 56. Once all outstanding assets have been enactment
of the licence distributed in accordance with the provisions
issued to a of section 55, the Director of Bank Supervision
licensed
shall direct such licensed commercial bank
commercial
subject to voluntary winding up to submit the
bank and to
remove the audited financial statements of such bank to
name from the Central Bank for its approval. Once the
the list audited financial statements are approved by
the Central Bank, the Central Bank shall cancel
the licence issued to such licensed commercial
bank and the name of such bank shall be
removed from the list of licensed commercial
banks.”.
33. Sections 57 to 69 (both inclusive) of the principal Repeal of
enactment are hereby repealed. sections 57 to 69
of the principal
enactment
34. Section 70 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended in subsection (4), by the substitution for the words section 70 of the
and figures “with the undertaking. The provisions of sections principal
63 and 68 shall apply to the winding up of the affairs under enactment
this section.” of the words “with the undertaking.”.
35. Section 72 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for section 72 of the
the words and figures “(1) In addition to the articles principal
referred to in sections 63 and 68 the articles” of the words enactment
and figure “(1) The articles”.
36. Section 76D of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof. section 76D of
the principal
enactment
32 Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2024
Amendment of 37. Section 76G of the principal enactment is hereby
section 76G of the amended in subsection (1), by the substitution for the words
principal
enactment “the Monetary Board may with the concurrence of the
Minister,” of the words “the Central Bank may,”.
Amendment of 38. Section 76H of the principal enactment is hereby
section 76H of
amended by the substitution for the words and figure
the principal
enactment “provisions of Part V” of the words and figures “provisions
of section 21, Part V”.
Amendment of 39. Section 76J of the principal enactment is hereby
section 76J of
amended in subsection (1) as follows:-
the principal
enactment
(1) by the substitution for the words “regarding the
manner in which any aspect of the business of such
banks is to be conducted and in particular-” of the
following:-
“considering the asset size, scale, diversity
and complexity of operations of such banks
or for reasons to be stated in writing to any
one or more of them, regarding the manner in
which any aspect of the business of such
banks is to be conducted and in particular -”;
and
(2) by the repeal of paragraph (k) thereof.
Amendment of 40. Section 76K of the principal enactment is hereby
section 76K of
amended by the substitution for the words and figure
the principal
enactment “provisions of section 45 shall,” of the words and figures
“provisions of sections 45, 47, 48A, 49 and 49A shall,”.
