30 banking (amendment) act, no. 24 of 2024 repeal of part 29. part viia of the principal enactment is hereby viia of the repealed. principal enactment repeal of 30. section 50 of the principal enactment is hereby section 50 of the repealed. principal enactment amendment of 31. section 55 of the principal enactment is hereby section 55 of the amended as follows:- principal enactment (1) by the substitution for the words and figure “in section 54 the name of such bank shall be removed from the list of licensed commercial banks and” of the words and figure “in section 54”; (2) in paragraph (c) thereof, by the substitution for the words and figure “in accordance with section 72.” of the words and figure “in accordance with section 72; and”; (3) by the addition immediately after paragraph (c) thereof, of the following:- “(d) all monies or other articles held in a safe deposit box which have not been paid or returned to the rightful owners under section 54, have been transferred to a special account of the central bank or are disposed in accordance with the directions issued by the central bank for such purpose, as the case may be.”; (4) by the repeal of the marginal note to that section, and the substitution therefor of the following:- banking (amendment) act, no. 24 of 2024 31 “distribution of the outstanding assets among the owners of the licensed commercial bank”. 32. section 56 of the principal enactment is hereby replacement of repealed and the following is substituted therefor:- section 56 of the principal “cancellation 56. once all outstanding assets have been enactment of the licence distributed in accordance with the provisions issued to a of section 55, the director of bank supervision licensed shall direct such licensed commercial bank commercial subject to voluntary winding up to submit the bank and to remove the audited financial statements of such bank to name from the central bank for its approval. once the the list audited financial statements are approved by the central bank, the central bank shall cancel the licence issued to such licensed commercial bank and the name of such bank shall be removed from the list of licensed commercial banks.”. 33. sections 57 to 69 (both inclusive) of the principal repeal of enactment are hereby repealed. sections 57 to 69 of the principal enactment 34. section 70 of the principal enactment is hereby amendment of amended in subsection (4), by the substitution for the words section 70 of the and figures “with the undertaking. the provisions of sections principal 63 and 68 shall apply to the winding up of the affairs under enactment this section.” of the words “with the undertaking.”. 35. section 72 of the principal enactment is hereby amendment of amended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for section 72 of the the words and figures “(1) in addition to the articles principal referred to in sections 63 and 68 the articles” of the words enactment and figure “(1) the articles”. 36. section 76d of the principal enactment is hereby amendment of amended by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof. section 76d of the principal enactment 32 banking (amendment) act, no. 24 of 2024 amendment of 37. section 76g of the principal enactment is hereby section 76g of the amended in subsection (1), by the substitution for the words principal enactment “the monetary board may with the concurrence of the minister,” of the words “the central bank may,”. amendment of 38. section 76h of the principal enactment is hereby section 76h of amended by the substitution for the words and figure the principal enactment “provisions of part v” of the words and figures “provisions of section 21, part v”. amendment of 39. section 76j of the principal enactment is hereby section 76j of amended in subsection (1) as follows:- the principal enactment (1) by the substitution for the words “regarding the manner in which any aspect of the business of such banks is to be conducted and in particular-” of the following:- “considering the asset size, scale, diversity and complexity of operations of such banks or for reasons to be stated in writing to any one or more of them, regarding the manner in which any aspect of the business of such banks is to be conducted and in particular -”; and (2) by the repeal of paragraph (k) thereof. amendment of 40. section 76k of the principal enactment is hereby section 76k of amended by the substitution for the words and figure the principal enactment “provisions of section 45 shall,” of the words and figures “provisions of sections 45, 47, 48a, 49 and 49a shall,”.