Provided, however that any measures taken under this section shall not
preclude the Monetary Board from subsequently proceeding under section 9
where the Monetary Board is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the
banking system to do so.
(5) Notice in writing of any measures taken under subsection (4) shall be given
to the licensed commercial bank and to any director, manager or controller referred
to in paragraph (e) of subsection (4) and such measures shall become effective from
the date of the receipt of such notification or such other date as may be specified in
the notice.
Section 30 of the 11A. Nothing contained in sections 9, 10 and 11 of this Act, shall in any
Monetary Law Act way affect the powers conferred on the Monetary Board by section 30 of the
to be applicable.
Monetary Law Act.
(§ 8, 33 of 1995)
Approval of the 12 (1) The written approval of the Monetary Board given with the concurrence
Monetary Board of the Minister, shall be required—
necessary prior to
carrying on certain
(a) for a licensed commercial bank to open or close a branch, agency
transactions &c.
or office of such bank, in any part of Sri Lanka or to effect a
change in the location of any existing place of business;
(b) for a licensed commercial bank incorporated or established within
Sri Lanka by or under any written law to open or close a branch,
agency, or office in any place outside Sri Lanka;
(c) for a licensed commercial bank to acquire the business or part of
the business of another licensed commercial bank or a licensed
specialised bank or of any branch, of another licensed commercial
bank or a licensed specialised bank;
(d) for banks incorporated or established outside Sri Lanka to open a
representative office or such other place of business within Sri
Lanka.
(e) for the merger or consolidation of a licensed commercial bank or a
branch thereof with any other licensed commercial bank or a
licensed specialised bank or a branch thereof.
(1A) An application for approval of an acquisition under paragraph (c) of
subsection (1) or a merger or consolidation under paragraph (e) of subsection (1)
shall include—
(a) a statement of the nature of the acquisition or merger or consolidation,
as the case may be;
16
(b) a copy of the proposed agreement, if any, under which the acquisition
or merger or consolidation, as the case may be, is to be effected;
(c) such other particulars and documents as may be prescribed.
(1B) An approval under paragraph (c) of subsection (1), or paragraph (e) of
subsection (1), or subsection (1C) shall not be granted, unless the Monetary Board
is satisfied, that such acquisition or merger or consolidation is in the interest of
promotion of a safe, sound and stable banking system, and the fair competition
prevailing in the banking industry. When granting approval for an aquisition under
subsection (1C), to an individual or a corporate body, the Monetary Board shall, in
determining whether such individual or the directors of such corporate body, as the
case may be, are fit and proper persons, have regard to the criteria set out in
subsection (2) of section 42.
(1C) (a) An individual, partnership or corporate body shall not, either directly or
indirectly or through a nominee or acting in concert with any other individual,
partnership or corporate body, acquire a material interest in a licensed commercial
bank incorporated or established within Sri Lanka by or under any written law
without the prior written approval of the Monetary Board given with the
concurrence of the Minister.
(b) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (2) of this section,
approval under paragraph (a) of this subsection may be granted subject
to terms and conditions as the Monetary Board may deem fit.
(c) A licensed commercial bank shall not enter in the register of members
of the bank as the holder of shares of the bank, the name of any
individual, partnership, corporate body, or nominee who or which has
contravened the provisions of paragraph (a).
For the purpose of this subsection—
(i) "acting in concert " means acting pursuant to an understanding (whether
formal or informal) to actively co-operate in acquiring a material interest in a
licensed commercial bank so as to obtain or consolidate, control of that
bank.
(ii) "material interest" means the holding of over ten per centum of the issued
capital of a licensed commercial bank carrying voting rights.
(2) The approval under this section may be granted subject to such terms and
conditions as may be specified by the Monetary Board with the concurrence of the
Minister
13 (1) The Monetary Board may, with the approval of the Minister, on a report by
the Director of Bank Supervision, by order made in writing, withdraw the approval
or vary the terms and conditions of an approval granted under section 12, including
the closure of a branch, agency or office of a licensed commercial bank. Notice of
17
the decision of the Monetary Board shall be communicated by the Director of Bank
Supervision to such bank, which shall carry out all the obligations and meet all the
liabilities of the branch, agency or office.
(2) Any licensed commercial bank to whom notice has been issued
under subsection (1) may within thirty days of the date of such order, tender
objections in writing to the Monetary Board giving reasons why such approval
shall not be withdrawn or the terms and conditions varied.
(3) After the expiration of sixty days from the date of the notice and after
considering the objections placed before the Board under subsection (2), the
Monetary Board shall, with the approval of the Minister_
(a) by order made in writing, cancel the notice of withdrawal or the
variation unconditionally; or
(b) by order made in writing and published in the Gazette, confirm the
withdrawal or variation with or without modification.
(4) Where the order for the closure has been made under subsection (1), the
Monetary Board shall direct the Director of Bank Supervision to take all steps as
may appear necessary in the circumstances, to satisfy himself that all persons who
have deposited moneys in that branch, agency or office are given the opportunity to
withdraw such moneys expeditiously and to ensure that such measures as would
safeguard the interest of such depositors are taken. It shall be lawful for the
Director of Bank Supervision to take such steps accordingly.
13A (1) Notwithstanding the provisions contained in paragraph (a) of
Mobile Banking Units
subsection (1) of section 12, the Deputy Governor may on, guidelines issued by the
Monetary Board for such purpose, grant approval for the establishment of mobile
banking units, subject to such terms and conditions as he may determine, from time
to time.
(2) The Deputy Governor may on a report of Director of Bank Supervision,
by order made in writing withdraw the approval granted under subsection (1) or
vary the terms and conditions of such approval, and notice of the decision shall be
communicated to the relevant licensed commercial bank.
Compliance of persons 14 (1) Where the Governor of the Central Bank has reasonable grounds to believe
& banks suspected of that any person is carrying on banking business in contravention of the provisions
carrying on banking
of this Act, the Governor may direct the Director of Bank Supervision or any other
business.
officer of the Central Bank to examine the books, accounts and records of such
[ § 8, 2 of 2005.]
person for the purpose of ascertaining whether such person has contravened, or is
contravening, any of the provisions of this Act.
(2) The Director of Bank Supervision or such other officer so authorised
by the Governor in terms of subsection (1) may require such person to furnish to
him such information or to produce for inspection any books, minutes, accounts,
cash, securities, vouchers, other documents and records as he may consider
necessary to obtain for the purpose of such examination, and it shall be the duty of
18
such person or bank to furnish such information and to submit to such officer for
examination such books, minutes, accounts, cash, securities, vouchers, other
documents and records, as the case may be, when so required.
(3) Any person who fails to furnish such information or to produce any
books, minutes, accounts, cash, securities, vouchers, other documents and records
when required to do so under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence under this
Act.
(4) Any refusal by any person to furnish such information or to submit
such books, minutes, accounts, cash, securities, vouchers, other documents and
records in contravention of the provisions of subsection (2) shall be prima facie
evidence of such person carrying on banking business without a license.
Articles to be altered 14A. A licensed commercial bank which is a company as defined in
with approval
section 449 of the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982, shall not alter its Memorandum
[ § 10, 33 of
1995.] of Association and the Articles of Association, without the prior written approval
of the Monetary Board.
15. The provisions of this Part shall not be construed to mean that a license under
section 5, or approval under section 12, shall be required for the Monetary Board
or the Central Bank to exercise, perform or discharge the powers, duties or
functions, in respect of banking business conferred on, or imposed on, or assigned
to, the Monetary Board under the Monetary Law Act or any written law.
PART II
BANKING NAMES AND DESCRIPTIONS
16 (1) No company other than a licensed commercial bank or a licensed
Restriction on the use of
certain names and specialised bank shall, except with the prior written approval of the Monetary
descriptions. Board, use as part of its name or its description any of the words "bank", "banker"
[ § 9, 2 of 2005]
or "banking", or any of its derivatives or its transliterations, or their equivalent in
any other language and no licensed commercial bank or a licensed specialised bank
shall carry on business in Sri Lanka unless it uses as part of its name at least one of
such words:
Provided however, a licensed commercial bank or a licensed specialised bank
incorporated outside Sri Lanka which does not have the word "bank", "banker" or
"banking" in any language in its name may carry on business in Sri Lanka
notwithstanding the omission of these words in its name;
(2) No firm, individual or group of individuals, shall, except with the prior
[ § 11, 33 of 1995]
written approval of the Monetary Board, for the purpose of carrying on any
business, use as part of its or his name or description any of the words ― bank ‖, ―
banker ‖ or ― banking ‖ or any of its derivatives, or its transliterations, or their
equivalent in any other language.
(3) Nothing in this section shall apply—
[ § 9, 33 of 1995]
19
(a) to a subsidiary of a licensed commercial bank or of a licensed
specialised bank established in accordance with the provisions of this
Act or any directions given hereunder;
(b) to any association of licensed commercial banks or licensed specialised
banks formed for the protection of their interests;
(c) to a trade union registered under the Trade Union Ordinance (Chapter
138), which is an association or combination of workers who are
employees of a banking institution within the meaning of section 127 of
the Monetary Law Act, or of the Central Bank or of a licensed
specialised bank;
(d) to an agency, institution, person or body of persons which is a banking
institution in terms of paragraph (b) or paragraph (d) of the definition of
the expression "banking institution" in section 127 of the Monetary Law
Act;
(e) to the use of the words in the manner restricted under subsection (1) for
the purpose of incorporating or changing the name of a company during
the period of validity of a Letter of Provisional Approval issued under
section 3 or section 76B.
(d) to the representative office of a licensed commercial bank or licensed
specialised bank incorporated or established outside Sri Lanka.
17 (1) A licensed commercial bank incorporated or established in Sri Lanka
A licensed
commercial bank not shall not have as its subsidiary a company which is not a licensed commercial bank
to have as its .
subsidiary a company
which is not a
licensed commercial Provided however, such bank may, with the written permission of the
bank Monetary Board, have a subsidiary which carries on any one or more of the
following businesses:—
(a) carries on the business of providing training in any one of the subjects
relating to banking, accountancy, valuation, project appraisal and credit
appraisal;
(b) carries on the business of engaging in hire purchase transactions;
(c) carries on the business of providing medium and long term credit for
development;
(d) carries on the business of factory leasing and warehousing;
(e) carries on the business of providing management consultancy services;
(f) becomes the subsidiary only by reason of a licensed commercial bank having
to acquire the share of a company consequent to such licensed commercial
bank capitalising the capital and the interest accrued thereon and which is
20
unpaid by the company to the bank, on loans granted by the licensed
commercial bank;
(g) carries on any form of business which in the opinion of the Monetary Board
is not inconsistent with the business of banking and the provision of finance:
Provided, further that the provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a
subsidiary formed before the appointed date by any licensed commercial bank
incorporated or established in Sri Lanka.
(2) A licensed commercial bank shall not accord to any of its subsidiary
companies, treatment which is more favourable than the treatment accorded to
other constituents of the bank, carrying on the same business as any such
subsidiary company.
(3) For the purposes of this Act a company shall, subject to the provisions of
subsection (4) of this section, be deemed to be a subsidiary of another if, and only
if—
i. that other company holds more than half in nominal value of its equity
share capital; or
ii. that other company is a shareholder of it and controls the composition of
its board of directors; or
iii. the first-mentioned company is a subsidiary of any company which is
that other’s subsidiary.
(4) In determining whether one company is a subsidiary of another—
(a) any shares held or power exercisable by that other in a fiduciary
capacity shall be treated as not held or exercisable by it;
(b) subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d), any shares held
or power exercisable—
(i) by any person as a nominee for that other except where
that other is concerned only in a fiduciary capacity; or
(ii) by, or by a nominee for, a subsidiary of that other, not
being a subsidiary which is concerned only in a
fiduciary capacity,
shall be treated as held or exercisable by that other;
(c) any shares held or power exercisable by any person by virtue of the
provisions of any debentures of the first mentioned company or of a
trust deed for securing the issue of such debentures shall be
disregarded;
21
(d) any shares held or power exercisable by, or by a nominee of, that
other or its subsidiary (not being held or exercisable as referred to in
paragraph (c) shall be treated as not held or exercisable by that
other, if the ordinary business of that other or its subsidiary, as the
case may be, includes the lending of money, and the shares are held
or power is exercisable as aforesaid by way of security, only for the
purposes of a transaction entered into in the ordinary course of that
business.
(5) For the purposes of this Act, a company shall be deemed to be another’s
holding company if, and only if, that other is its subsidiary.
(6) In this Part the expression ―equity share capital‖ in relation to a company,
means its issued share capital excluding any part thereof which, neither in
respect of dividends nor as respects capital, carries any right to participate
beyond a specified amount in a distribution.
Purchase of shares
17A. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), a licensed
fifty per cent or commercial bank shall not acquire or hold shares in any company other than a
less by a licensed listed public company, and—
commercial bank
[ § 9, 33 of 1995]
(a) any share holding acquired by such bank shall not be in excess of
such percentage of its capital funds as the Monetary Board may
determine from time to time; and
(b) the aggregate amount invested in the shares of listed public companies
(excluding companies which are subsidiaries of the bank) shall not
exceed, such percentage of its capital funds as may be determined
from time to time by the Monetary Board
Provided however, a licensed commercial bank may, without exceeding the
limits specified above, acquire shares in a public company other than a
listed company. if such acquisition becomes necessary for the purpose of
rehabilitating such company to make it financially viable.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1), shall not apply to—
(a) investment in a subsidiary company of such bank which is a
licensed commercial bank;
(b) investments in any other subsidiary company of the bank
acquired with the approval of the Monetary Board;
(c) any shareholding which the bank might acquire in the course
of the satisfaction of any debt due to such bank, or as a
consequence of the underwriting of a share issue:
Provided that where as a result of the acquisition of
these shares, the total investment of the bank exceeds the
percentage of capital funds as determined by the Monetary
22
Board under subsection (1), the bank shall dispose of such
excess shares within two years or such longer period as may
be determined by the Monetary Board, of the date of such
acquisition;
(d) Any acquisition or holding of shares in any company which
in the opinion of the Monetary Board is established for
the advancement and promotion of human resources
development and technological development in the banking
and financial sectors;
(e) Investments authorized by the Monetary Board.
(3) For the purpose of this section ― listed public company‖ means
any public company which has its securities listed or quoted in a stock exchange
licensed under the Securities and Exchange Commission Act, No. 37 of 1987.
PART III
CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS, RESERVE FUNDS AND MAINTENANCE
OF LIQUID ASSETS
Compliance With 18. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other written law, no
provisions of this Part licensed commercial bank shall on or after the appointed date, commence or carry
essential.
on business in Sri Lanka unless it complies with all the requirements specified in
this Part.
19. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), every licensed
commercial bank—
(a) which has been issued with a license prior to the date of
commencement of this section, shall at all times maintain an equity
capital in an amount not less than twenty-five million rupees;
(b) which has been issued with a license after the date of
commencement of this subsection, shall at all times maintain an
equity capital in an amount not less than one hundred million rupees
or such other amount as the Monetary Board may, having regard to
the viability and stability of the banking system and the interest of
the national economy and with the concurrence of the Minister,
determine from time to time.
(2) ―equity capital‖ shall mean—
(a) paid up capital if it is a licensed commrcial bank incorporated or
established in Sri Lanka by or under any written law .
(b) the amount assigned to such bank by the head office, if it is a
licensed commercial bank incorporated or established outside Sri
Lanka.
23
