Board under subsection (1), the bank shall dispose of such
excess shares within two years or such longer period as may
be determined by the Monetary Board, of the date of such
acquisition;
(d) Any acquisition or holding of shares in any company which
in the opinion of the Monetary Board is established for
the advancement and promotion of human resources
development and technological development in the banking
and financial sectors;
(e) Investments authorized by the Monetary Board.
(3) For the purpose of this section ― listed public company‖ means
any public company which has its securities listed or quoted in a stock exchange
licensed under the Securities and Exchange Commission Act, No. 37 of 1987.
PART III
CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS, RESERVE FUNDS AND MAINTENANCE
OF LIQUID ASSETS
Compliance With 18. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other written law, no
provisions of this Part licensed commercial bank shall on or after the appointed date, commence or carry
essential.
on business in Sri Lanka unless it complies with all the requirements specified in
this Part.
19. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), every licensed
commercial bank—
(a) which has been issued with a license prior to the date of
commencement of this section, shall at all times maintain an equity
capital in an amount not less than twenty-five million rupees;
(b) which has been issued with a license after the date of
commencement of this subsection, shall at all times maintain an
equity capital in an amount not less than one hundred million rupees
or such other amount as the Monetary Board may, having regard to
the viability and stability of the banking system and the interest of
the national economy and with the concurrence of the Minister,
determine from time to time.
(2) ―equity capital‖ shall mean—
(a) paid up capital if it is a licensed commrcial bank incorporated or
established in Sri Lanka by or under any written law .
(b) the amount assigned to such bank by the head office, if it is a
licensed commercial bank incorporated or established outside Sri
Lanka.
23
(3) (a) The Monetary Board may, vary from time to time the amounts specified
[§ 2, 15 of 2006]
as the minimum amounts required to be maintained by a licensed
commercial bank as equity capital under subsection (1) of this section,
having regard to –
(i) the deposit liabilities or to the total liabilities including
contingent liabilities or to the total assets or to any specified
category of assets, of a licensed commercial bank; or
(ii) the viability and stability of the banking system and the
interest of the national economy.
(b) For the purpose of computing the minimum required equity capital,
when such amount is prescribed in reference to liabilities or assets,
both capital and liabilities or assets shall be of such kind and
computed in such manner as the Monetary Board may from time to
time determine having regard to the interest of national economy.
(c) The Monetary Board shall, in writing communicate to all licensed
commercial banks any variation made by it in respect of the equity
capital required to be maintained by a licensed commercial bank.
(d) Where any licensed commercial bank is required by such variation to
augment its equity capital, it shall upon application to the Monetary
Board, be afforded a period of twelve months, or such longer period
as may be granted by the Monetary Board, in which to comply with
that requirement.
(4) In the case of a licensed commercial bank incorporated or established in
Sri Lanka by or under any written law, the limit of foreign participation in the
capital of such bank, shall at no time exceed the limit, established from time to
time, by the Monetary Board.
(5) A licensed commercial bank shall not reduce its equity capital without
the prior written approval of the Monetary Board
(6) A licensed commercial bank shall not create any charge upon any unpaid
capital of such bank and any such charge created in contravention of these
provisions shall be null and void.
(7) (a) Every licensed commercial bank shall at all times maintain a
capital adequacy ratio as may be determined by the Monetary Board,
which shall in determining such ratio to be maintained, as far as
practicable adopt the guidelines for capital adequacy set out by the
Bank for international settlements in Basle.
(b) Any variation in the capital adequacy ratio referred to in
paragraph (a) shall be communicated to every licensed commercial
bank by the Monetary Board in writing, provided that every licensed
24
commercial bank which is required by such variation to augment its
capital, shall be afforded a period of twelve months or such longer
period as may be granted by the Monetary Board, in which to
comply with such requirement.
(8) Where the equity capital or capital funds of a licensed commercial
[§ 4 and 5, 33 of
1995] bank have become deficient in terms of the provisions of the preceding
subsections, the Monetary Board may, grant a reasonable period of time for the
rectification of such deficiency.
Reserve Fund
20. (1) Every licensed commercial bank shall maintain a reserve fund and shall,
out of the net profits after the payment of tax of each year, before any dividend is
declared or any profits are transferred to the head office or elsewhere, transfer to
such reserve fund—
(a) a sum equivalent to not less than five per centum of such profits
until the amount of the said reserve fund is equal to fifty per centum
of the paid up or assigned capital or of such bank, as the case may
be; and
(b) a further sum equivalent to not less than two per centum of such
profits until the amount of the said reserve fund is equal to the paid
up or assigned capital of such bank as the case may be:
Provided, however, that an amount not less than twenty-five per centum of
the net profits shall be utilized for setting off such intangible assets as may be
determined by the Monetary Board, before such profits are transferred to the
reserve fund.
(2) The reserve fund of any licensed commercial bank shall not be reduced
nor impaired:
Provided, however, that the Monetary Board may, specify circumstances in
which the reserve fund may be reduced, and shall permit a reduction when a
transfer is made for the purpose of increasing the paid up or assigned capital, as the
case may be. The Monetary Board shall permit an impairment of the reserve fund
when it is the only means of preventing an impairment of paid-up or assigned
capital, as the case may be, subject to the condition that within a given period of
time, the deficiency shall be rectified.
21. (1) Every licensed commercial bank shall maintain liquid assets in such
percentage as may from time to time be determined by the Monetary Board having
Liquid assets
[§11,2 of 2005] regard to the nature of the business carried on by such bank, which shall not in a
daily average each months, be less than such percentage of the total of its
liabilities, less its liabilities to the Central Bank and to the share holders, to the
holders of non-redeemable debt instruments and its liabilities on repurchase
agreements in relation to treasury bills or securities issued or guaranteed by the
Government of Sri Lanka or on such other assets as determined by the Monetary
Board.
25
Provided, however, the percentage determined by the Monetary Board shall
not be less than twenty per centum and not more than forty per centum of the total
of its liabilities, less its liabilities to the Central Bank and to the shareholders
(2) The Director of Bank Supervision may, by notice in writing, require
every licensed commercial bank to furnish to him such return or returns as he may
deem necessary for the purposes of satisfying himself that the provisions of
subsection (1) have been complied with, and every licensed commercial bank so
noticed, shall furnish such return or returns as may be required.
(3) Any licensed commercial bank which fails to comply with the
provisions of subsection (1) shall, within such time as may be determined by the
Monetary Board, pay to the Central Bank a charge on the amount of the deficiency
calculated at such rate as may be determined by the Monetary Board.
(4) Any licensed commercial bank which fails to comply with the
provisions of subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
22. No licensed commercial bank incorporated or established within Sri Lanka
Payment of dividends
by or under any written law shall pay any dividend on its shares and no licensed
commercial bank incorporated outside Sri Lanka shall transfer abroad any profits
earned in Sri Lanka until all its capitalized expenses, including its preliminary
expenses in other items of expenditure not represented by tangible assets, have
been completely written off.
PART IV
OFF-SHORE BANKING BUSINESS
License to engage 23. Unless authorized under section 76D, no off-shore banking business shall be
in off shore banking carried on except by a commercial bank licensed to carry on off-shore banking and
business
such bank shall carry on its business in accordance with such off-shore banking
[ § 12, 2 of 2005.]
scheme formulated by the Monetary Board:
Provided that the banks specified in Schedule I, which on the appointed date are
carrying on off-shore banking business under the ―Foreign Currency Banking
Scheme‖ established by the Monetary Board shall be issued a licence in terms of
section 5 enabling such banks to carry on off-shore banking business under this
Part.
Parts III, V and VI
24. (1) All off-shore operation of a licensed commercial bank under this Part,
not to apply to
shall be carried on by its off-shore unit, and subject to the provisions of subsection
off-shore banking
in certain (2), Parts III, V and VI of this Act, shall not apply in respect of such off-shore
circumstances. banking business.
[ § 15, 33 of
1995.]
(2) The Monetary Board may by notice published in the
Gazette declare, that all or any of the provisions contained in Parts III, V and VI of
this Act shall apply in respect of all off-shore banking business of a licensed
commercial bank in general or in respect of its off-shore banking business with
residents only.
26
