to the suitability of the company or the proposed company and in
particular —
(i) the validity and acceptability of the documents and particulars
submitted by the applicant;
(ii) the financial status and history of the company or the proposed
company;
(iii) the financial standing, experience and suitability of the Directors,
Chief Executive Officer and such other officers of the company
performing executive functions as may be determined by the
Monetary Board or the persons proposed to be appointed to such
positions in the proposed company, as the case may be;
(iv) of the adequacy of the capital of the company or based on the
information furnished by the applicant on behalf of the proposed
company, the ability of the proposed company to raise adequate
capital;
(v) of the ability of the company or the proposed company to cover all
obligations and liabilities incurred in the conduct of business in Sri
Lanka and to comply with the provisions of the Act;
(vi) the applicant's compliance with the provisions of the Act or any
directions given under the Act in relation to the application for a
licence under the Act.
(11) Any person who submits information or particulars in an application for
a licence or in any other document submitted in connection therewith or in the
course of any inquiry or investigation conducted to ascertain the suitability of the
company or the proposed company to be issued with a licence under this Act,
which to the knowledge of the person is false or misleading in any material
particular, shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
4 (1) The Monetary Board may require any company or body corporate
Companies and bodies
incorporated outside Sri Lanka, which has applied for a licence under section 3, to
corporate,
incorporated undertake to remit to Sri Lanka, prior to the commencement of their business in Sri
outside Sri Lanka, a sum of money, determined with the approval of the Minister, in United
Lanka to remit
States Dollars, or its equivalent in any designated foreign currency. The amount so
currency to Sri
remitted may form part of the assigned capital of such company or incorporated
Lanka.
[ § 5, 33 of1995.] body and shall be kept as a deposit with the Central Bank or in such other manner
as may be determined from time to time by the Monetary Board.
(2) The Monetary Board may, where such Board considers it necessary or
expedient to do so in the interest of national economy, from time to time, make
further determinations as regards the remittance of money after the expiry of a
period of six months from the date of the last of such determinations.
10
(3) A determination made under this section shall apply uniformly
to all companies and bodies corporate incorporated outside Sri Lanka, which apply
for a licence after each such determination.
Issue of licence. 5 (1) Where the Monetary Board is satisfied that a licence may be issued to a
company or a proposed company to carry on banking business, it may, with the
approval of the Minister, issue a licence to the company or proposed company to
carry on banking business in Sri Lanka subject to such terms and conditions as may
be imposed by the Monetary Board.
(2) The licence issued under subsection (1) shall specify—
(a) whether it authorizes the company to carry on domestic banking
business or off-shore banking business or both such businesses;
(b) the place or places or the area within which such banking business may
be carried on; and
(c) the terms and conditions subject to which such licence is issued.
(3) Every licensed commercial bank shall display a copy of the licence issued
to it under subsection (1) in a conspicuous place at its principal place of business in
Sri Lanka and each of its branches.
6. Subject to the provisions of section 17, no licensed commercial bank
Limits imposed on all
licensed commercial shall—
banks.
(a) carry on any banking business other than the business specified in
the licence; or
(b) carry on any other form of business other than those specified in
Schedule II to this Act.
Bank of Ceylon, 7. Nothing contained in the provisions of section 6 shall be construed so as to
People’s Bank
restrict the Bank of Ceylon or the People’s Bank, established under the Bank of
&c., not to be
Ceylon Ordinance (Chapter 397), the Peoples Bank Act, No. 29 of 1961,
restricted by
preceding respectively and any Regional Rural Development Bank established under the
provisions in Regional Rural Development Bank Act, No. 15 of 1985, in the exercise of the
the exercise of powers
powers conferred on each such bank by and under the aforesaid statutes applicable
to each of such banks, respectively.
Payment of licence 8 (1) Every licensed commercial bank shall pay to the Central Bank an
fee annual licence fee as may be determined by the Monetary Board, having regard to
the different classes of banking business carried on by such bank.
(2) The Monetary Board shall inform each such licensed commercial bank
the amount payable as licence fee, and the manner in which such fee shall be paid.
(3) Where a licence fee is determined in respect of classes of banking
business such fee shall apply to all banks carrying on such classes of business.
11
