authority, which have in terms of the aforesaid provisions vested in an acquiring
bank, shall be liabilities to the government.
For the purposes of subsections (3A) and (3B) ―relevant date‖ means the
date on which the defaulting bank is vested in the acquiring bank in terms of sub
Paragraph (i)(B) of Paragraph (b) of subsection (3).
(4) A licensed specialised bank incorporated or established within Sri
[ § 32 , 2 of 2005.]
Lanka may be voluntarily wound up and the provisions of Part VIII shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to such voluntary winding up.
(5) A licensed specialised bank incorporated outside Sri Lanka may
[ § 32 , 2 of 2005.]
voluntarily close down its business authorised under the license issued under
section 76A and the provisions of Part VIII shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such
closure.
Power of Director of 76N. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act or of any other written
Bank Supervision to law to the contrary or the Articles of Association of a licensed specialised bank,
issue directions in
the Monetary Board may, where the business of a licensed specialised bank has
respect of Connected
been suspended under subsection (1) of section 76(M);
matters.
[ § 31, 33 of1995.]
[ § 33 , 2 of 2005.] (a) make such arrangements as it considers necessary for the
amalgamation of the licensed specialised bank with another
licensed specialised bank or any other institution, with the
consent of such other licensed specialised bank or institution;
(b) re-organise such licensed specialised bank by increasing its
capital and arranging for new shareholders and by reconstituting
its board of directors; or
(c) re-construct the licensed specialised bank in any such manner as
it considers to be in the interest of depositors, including the
closing down of unviable sections of the business and re-
organising the management;
(d) direct any shareholder of any licensed specialised bank to divest
or transfer the ownership of the shares owned by him, to a person
nominated by the Monetary Board, on payment by such person of
compensation determined as follows:—
(i) where such shares are quoted, at the market value
thereof; or
(ii) where such shares are not quoted, at a price to be
determined by a valuer nominated by the Monetary
Board.
(2) A shareholder who fails to comply with a direction given to him
under paragraph (d) of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.
71
PART X
GENERAL
Declaration of 77. (1) Every director, manager, officer or other person employed in the
secrecy
business of any licensed commercial bank or licensed specialised bank shall
[§34,2 of 2005]
observe strict secrecy in respect of all transactions of the bank, its customers and
the state of accounts of any person and all matters relating thereto and shall not
reveal any such matter except—
(a) when required to do so—
(i) by a court of law;
(ii) by the person to whom such matter relates;
(b) in the performance of the duties of the director, manager,
officer or other person; or
(c) in order to comply with any of the provisions of this Act
or any other written law.
(2) Every director, manager, officer or person employed in the business of
a licensed commercial bank or licensed specialised bank shall before entering upon
the duties, sign a declaration pledging himself to observe strict secrecy in
accordance with subsection (1).
(3) The provisions of subsections (1) and (2) shall not prohibit a bank from
providing in good faith to another bank on request an opinion or reference relating
to a customer in accordance with customary banking practice.
Protection for action 78. No suit or prosecution shall lie against the Monetary Board or any
taken under this act or on member of the Monetary Board or any officer or servant of the Central Bank for
the directions of the any act which in good faith is done or purported to be done by the Monetary Board
Monetary Board.
or by any officer or servant of the Central Bank under this Act; or against any
[ § 33, 33 of1995.]
[ § 35 , 2 of 2005.] director, officer or employee of any licensed commercial bank or licensed
specialised bank for any act which in good faith is done or purported to be done by
him under this Act or on the direction of the Monetary Board.
Offences 79. (1) Any person who commits an offence under subsection (5) of section
[ § 36 , 2 of 2005.]
2, subsection (11) of section 3, subsection (3) of section 14, subsection (3) of
section 33, subsection (3) of section 41 or subsection (12) of section 47 of this Act,
shall be liable on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate to a fine not
exceeding one million rupees or imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding three years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of subsections (1) and
(2) of section 16, subsection (1) of section 17 or section 77 shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act and shall be liable on conviction after summary trial before
a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding one million rupees or to imprisonment of
72
either description for a term not exceeding three years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(3) Any person who commits an offence under this Act other than an
offence referred to in subsection (1) or subsection (2) above, shall be liable on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, unless where the punishment is
otherwise provided for in this Act, to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding eighteen
months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(4) Any person who contravenes any provision of this Act or any order,
direction, requirement, rule or regulation under this Act, other than those specified
in subsection (2) or those that otherwise constitute an offence, shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act, and shall be liable on conviction after summary trial before
a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding eighteen months or to
both such fine and imprisonment.
(5) In any proceedings against any person under subsection (2) for
contravention of the provisions of section 77, it shall be a defence to prove that
such person acted in good faith, believing himself to be acting in the performance
of his duties or under a requirement of law.
(6) In any proceedings against a director, manager, officer or an
employee of a licensed commercial bank or a licensed specialised bank for an
offence under this Act it shall be a defence for the director, manager, officer or
employee to establish that the offence was committed without the knowledge of
such director, manager, officer or employee or that such director, manager, officer
or employee exercised all due diligence to avoid the commission of the offence
Compounding
79A. The Director of Bank Supervision may with the approval of the
offences Monetary Board and having regard to the circumstances in which an offence under
[ § 37 , 2 of 2005.] this Act was committed, compound such offence for a sum of money not exceeding
one million rupees.
(2) The compounding of any offence under this section shall have the effect of
an acquittal of the accused.
80. (1) Any person who, being a director, manager, officer or employee of
Persons who fail to
take reasonable steps a licensed commercial bank or licensed specialised bank, as the case may be —
&c. under the Act to
be guilty of an
(a) fails to take all reasonable steps to secure compliance by the
offence.
[ § 35 , 33 of 1995.] licensed commercial bank or licensed specialised bank, as the case
may be, with the requirements of that Act; or
(b) fails to comply with any direction issued by the Monetary Board
under the provisions of this Act;
73
(c) fails to take all reasonable steps to secure the correctness of any
statement submitted under the provisions of this Act;
(d ) willfully makes a false entry or causes such an entry to be made in
any book or record or in any report, slip, document, or statement of
the business, affairs, transactions, conditions, assets or liabilities or
accounts of such licensed commercial bank or licensed specialised
bank, as the case may be; or
(e) willfully omits to make an entry in any book or record or in any
report, slip, document, or statement of the business, affairs,
transactions, conditions, assets or liabilities or accounts of such
licensed commercial bank or licensed specialised bank, as the case
may be, or willfully causes any such entry to be omitted; or
(f) willfully alters, abstracts, conceals or destroys an entry in any book
or record or in any report, slip, document, or statement of the
business, affairs, transactions, conditions, assets or liabilities or
accounts of such licensed commercial bank or licensed specialised
bank, as the case may be, or willfully causes any such entry to be
altered, abstracted, concealed or destroyed,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall, on conviction after summary
trial by a magistrate be liable to a term of imprisonment for a term not exceeding
eighteen months or to a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees or to both such
imprisonment and fine.
(2) In any proceedings against a person under subsection (1) it
shall be a defence to prove that he had reasonable grounds to believe that another
person was charged with the duty of securing compliance with the requirements of
this Act or with the duty of ensuring that these statements were accurate and that
such person was competent and in a position to discharge that duty.
Offence by a body 81. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a body corporate,
corporate every person, who at the time of the commission of the offence was a director or an
officer of the body corporate, shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless he
proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge, or that he exercised
all due diligence to avoid the commission of such offence.
Schedules II and IV to be 81A. Parliament shall have power by resolution passed in that behalf to
amended by resolution. amend Schedules II and IV to this Act.
[ § 36, 33 of 1995.]
82. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of matters required
by this Act to be prescribed or in respect of which regulations are authorised to be
made.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be published in the
Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication or on such
later date as may be specified in the regulation
74
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon as is
convenient, after its publication in the Gazette, be brought before Parliament for
approval.
(4). Every regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be
rescinded as from the date of such disapproval but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder. Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
This Act prevails 82A. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of this
over other laws. Act and the provisions of any other written law, the provisions of this Act shall
[ § 37, 33 of 1995.
prevail.
Licensed commercial 83. A licensed commercial bank which is granted a license in terms of
bank deemed to be an section 5 shall be deemed to be—
approved credit agency.
(i) an approved credit agency for purposes of the Trust Receipt
Ordinance (Chapter 85) and the Mortgage Act (Chapter 89).
(ii) an ― approved bank ‖ for purposes of the Finance Act No. 65 of
1961.
Pawn brokers 83A. The provisions of the pawn brokers ordinance (Chapter 99) shall not apply
ordinance not to to licensed commercial banks and licensed specialized banks that are permitted to
apply
carry on the business of pawn broking and such banks may carry on the business of
[§ 38,33 of 1995]
pawn brokers subject to such conditions as may be determined by the Monetary
board.
Commercial bank 83B. A company incorporated out side Sri Lanka which has been issued license
deemed to be a
under section 5 of this Act as a licensed commercial bank, shall with effect from
exempted company.
the date of issue of such license, be deemed as a exempted company for the
[§ 38,33 of 1995]
purposes of Companies (Special Provisions) Law No.19 of 1974 and the
Companies Act No. 17 1982.
Prohibition on conduct of
83C. (1) No person shall directly or indirectly initiate, offer, promote, advertise,
certain Schemes conduct, finance, manage or direct a Scheme where a participant is required to
[§ 38,02 of 2005] contribute or pay money or monetary value and the benefits earned by the
participant are largely dependent on—
(a) increase in the number of participants in the Scheme; or
(b) increase in the contributions made by the participants in the Scheme.
For the purpose of this subsection —
"money" means a monetary unit or a medium of exchange that is issued,
established, authorized or adopted by Sri Lanka or a foreign government; and
75
"monetary value" means a medium of exchange whether or not redeemable in
money, including in the form of stored value, payment instrument or credit to
account and shall also include gold coin and gold bullion.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate to imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding three
years or to a fine not exceeding rupees one million or to both such imprisonment
and fine. Where the offence is committed wilfully or knowingly, or with
knowledge that the act will cause damage or harm to any other person, to rigorous
imprisonment for a term not less than three years and not more than five years and
to a fine of rupees two million or twice the aggregate amount in Sri Lanka currency
revealed or divulged to have been received from the participants in the Scheme,
whichever is higher.
(3) An officer of the Central Bank authorized in that behalf by the
Governor, may, where information has been received that there has been or is
likely to be a contravention of the provisions of subsection (1), conduct an
investigation into such matter. In carrying out his duties under this section the
authorised officer may,—
(a) enter and search any premises where he has reason to believe that
any acts relating to the commission of the offence specified in
subsection (1) are being committed or any books or other records or
documents relating to such acts are kept or maintained at such place;
(b) call for further information or documents;
(c) examine any documents, books or records, including records
maintained in electronic form or computer generated transcripts;
(d) obtain copies of any documents, books or records or computer
generated transcripts or any part thereof,
for the purpose of ascertaing whether any person has contravened or is likely to
contravene the provisions of subsection (1).
(4) Any person who obstructs or resists the authorised officer in the
exercise of his powers under this section, shall be guilty of an offence under this
Act.
(5) Any person who fails to furnish any information within his
knowledge, or any book or other record or documents or computer generated
transcripts relating to such acts which are in his custody or possession, shall be
guilty of an offence under this Act.
(6) In any prosecution for an offence under this section, the extracts
from any books or other record or documents or computer generated trascripts
relating to such acts shall be admissible in evidence and shall be prima facie
eveidence of the facts stated therein.
76
(7) The Central Bank shall provide any information, documents,
books, records or computer generated transcripts obtained in the course of an
investigation conducted under subsection (3) to the law enforcement authorities
and shall co-operate with such authorities in the prosecution of a person for
violation of the provisions of subsection (1).
(8) Upon an application made to it by an officer of the Police above
the rank of an Inspector of Police and upon satisfying itself that a prima facie case
exists against a person for the violation of the provisions of subsection (1), the
High Court of the Western Province established under Article 154P of the
Constitution holdern in Colombo shall issue an exparte Order against the offender
prohibiting him from engaging in any act specified in subsection (1).
(9) The High Court may, upon application made in that behalf by the
person on whom an order under subsection (8) has been made or by any other
person adversely affected by such order, and upon hearing all parties as it may
consider necessary, make order revoking the order made by it under subsection (8),
or permit any act prohibited under subsection (8) conditionally or unconditionally,
if it is satisfied that such revocation or permission is necessary to avoid undue
damage to legitimate business or the legitimate interests of the applicant.
PART XII
REPEAL
Amendments to 84. The Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422) is hereby amended by the repeal
Monetary Law act
of sections 116A, 121A and 121B of that Act.
cap.133.
85. The companies Act No. 17 of 1982 is hereby amended by the repeal of
Part XIV of that Act.
PART XIII
INTERPRETATION
Interpretation.
86. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
―accommodation" means any loan, overdraft or advance or such other facility as
may be determined by the Monetary Board or any commitment to grant any loan,
overdraft or advance or such other facility as may be determined by the Monetary
Board, including a commitment to accept a contingent liability;
― banking business ‖ means the business of receiving funds from the
public through the acceptance of money deposits payable upon demand by cheque,
draft, order or otherwise, and the use of such funds either in whole or in part for
advances, investments or any other operation either authorised by law or by
customary banking practices;
― capital funds ‖ means
[ § 39, 33 of 1995.]
77
