(3) A determination made under this section shall apply uniformly
to all companies and bodies corporate incorporated outside Sri Lanka, which apply
for a licence after each such determination.
Issue of licence. 5 (1) Where the Monetary Board is satisfied that a licence may be issued to a
company or a proposed company to carry on banking business, it may, with the
approval of the Minister, issue a licence to the company or proposed company to
carry on banking business in Sri Lanka subject to such terms and conditions as may
be imposed by the Monetary Board.
(2) The licence issued under subsection (1) shall specify—
(a) whether it authorizes the company to carry on domestic banking
business or off-shore banking business or both such businesses;
(b) the place or places or the area within which such banking business may
be carried on; and
(c) the terms and conditions subject to which such licence is issued.
(3) Every licensed commercial bank shall display a copy of the licence issued
to it under subsection (1) in a conspicuous place at its principal place of business in
Sri Lanka and each of its branches.
6. Subject to the provisions of section 17, no licensed commercial bank
Limits imposed on all
licensed commercial shall—
banks.
(a) carry on any banking business other than the business specified in
the licence; or
(b) carry on any other form of business other than those specified in
Schedule II to this Act.
Bank of Ceylon, 7. Nothing contained in the provisions of section 6 shall be construed so as to
People’s Bank
restrict the Bank of Ceylon or the People’s Bank, established under the Bank of
&c., not to be
Ceylon Ordinance (Chapter 397), the Peoples Bank Act, No. 29 of 1961,
restricted by
preceding respectively and any Regional Rural Development Bank established under the
provisions in Regional Rural Development Bank Act, No. 15 of 1985, in the exercise of the
the exercise of powers
powers conferred on each such bank by and under the aforesaid statutes applicable
to each of such banks, respectively.
Payment of licence 8 (1) Every licensed commercial bank shall pay to the Central Bank an
fee annual licence fee as may be determined by the Monetary Board, having regard to
the different classes of banking business carried on by such bank.
(2) The Monetary Board shall inform each such licensed commercial bank
the amount payable as licence fee, and the manner in which such fee shall be paid.
(3) Where a licence fee is determined in respect of classes of banking
business such fee shall apply to all banks carrying on such classes of business.
11
