may be, on the day immediately preceding the relevant date, who are
not offered employment with the acquiring bank, shall be entitled to
the payment of compensation.
Payment of compensation 49H. Where any officer or servant of the defaulting bank is entitled to be paid
[§ 30, 33 of 1995.]
compensation, the acquiring bank shall determine the amount of compensation that
shall be paid in consultation with the Commissioner of Labour and such
determination shall be deemed not to affect the right such officer or servant may
have under any other written law.
Offences 49J. Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this
[§ 30, 33 of 1995.] Part or term or condition imposed there under shall be guilty of an offence under
this Act.
Section 12(1)(c) not to 49K. Nothing contained in the provisions of paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of
apply in respect of section 12 shall apply, in relation to the vesting of banking business of a defaulting
defaulting bank.
bank or part thereof, to an acquiring bank.
[§ 30, 33 of 1995.]
Interpretation
49L. In this Part of this Act unless the context otherwise requires—
[§ 30, 33 of
1995.] ― value of the vested business ‖ means the value of the assets of the defaulting bank
vested in the acquiring bank by virtue of an Order made under section 49B
(excluding unrecoverable assets as determined by the auditor nominated under
section 49F) less the value of the liabilities of the defaulting bank vested in the
acquiring bank, by virtue of such Order;
― vested business ‖ in relation to an acquiring bank or a defaulting bank, means the
banking business of the defaulting bank or part thereof, which is vested in such
acquiring bank by an Order under section 49B.
PART VIII
LIQUIDATION OF LICENSED COMMERCIAL BANKS
INCORPORATED WITHIN SRI LANKA AND CLOSUREOF
BRANCHES OF LICENSED COMMERCIAL BANKS INCORPORATED
OUTSIDE SRI LANKA
Liquidator. 50. The Director of Bank Supervision shall be appointed as the liquidator for
the purposes of this Part.
51. No voluntary liquidation of a licensed commercial bank incorporated or
Liquidation.
established in Sri Lanka by or under any written law shall be effected without the
prior authorisation of the Monetary Board obtained in writing. The authorisation
shall be granted only if it appears to the Monetary Board that—
(a) the licensed commercial bank is solvent and has sufficient liquid
assets to repay its depositors and other creditors without delay;
and
50
(b) the liquidation has been approved by the affirmative vote of the
shareholders of at least three-fourths of the outstanding shares
entitled to vote at a meeting called expressly for this purpose:
Provided that if the liquidation is to be effected in whole or in part through
the sale of any of the assets of the licensed commercial bank to, and the assumption
of its deposit liabilities by, another licensed commercial bank, the Monetary Board
may, upon a finding of imminent danger of insolvency, waive the requirement for
shareholder approval:
Provided further, that the provisions of paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of
section 12 shall not apply to such assumption of liabilities.
Licensed commercial 52. Where a licensed commercial bank has received the authorization of the
bank to cease to carry Monetary Board to liquidate, such bank shall-
on business.
(a) immediately cease to carry on business, exercising only such
powers as are necessary to effect an orderly liquidation;
(b) repay sums of money due to its depositors and other creditors;
(c) wind up all operations undertaken prior to the receipt of the
authorisation
Notice of 53. Any licensed commercial bank which is subject to voluntary liquidation
liquidation to be
shall, with in thirty days of the receipt of the authorization referred to in section 51
sent to
cause a notice of voluntary liquidation, to be sent by registered post to all
depositors,
creditors &c depositors, to the creditors, and persons otherwise entitled to the funds or property
held by such licensed commercial bank as a fiduciary, lessor of a safe deposit box
or bailee. The Monetary Board shall specify the information to be included in the
notice. The Monetary Board may, where it considers it expedient so to do, exempt
the posting of such notice to specified persons upon a showing of reasonable cause
therefor by such licensed commercial bank. The notice shall be kept displayed
in a conspicuous place within the place of business of the licensed commercial
bank, and shall be given such other publicity as the Monetary Board may direct.
Safeguard rights of 54. The authorisation to go into voluntary liquidation shall not prejudice the
depositors and rights of a depositor or other creditor or owner to payment in full of his claim, and
creditors.
the rights on an owner of funds or other property held by the licensed commercial
bank. All lawful claims shall be paid promptly and all funds and other property
held by the licensed commercial bank shall be returned to their rightful owners
within such maximum period as the Monetary Board may determine.
Licensed commercial 55. Where the Monetary Board is of the opinion that any licensed
bank removed from commercial bank has discharged all its obligations as referred to in section 54 the
list of licensed
name of such bank shall be removed from the list of licensed commercial banks
commercial
and the outstanding assets shall be distributed among its rightful owners in
banks.
proportion to their respective rights. No distributions shall be made until—
51
(a) all claims of depositors or other creditors or owners have been paid
and, in the case of disputed claims, before the licensed commercial
bank has transmitted to the Central Bank sufficient funds to meet any
liability that may arise after a judicial decision;
(b) any funds payable to depositors, other creditors and owners who have
not claimed them, have been transmitted to the Central Bank;
(c) any other funds or property held by the licensed commercial bank which
could not be returned to the rightful owner in accordance with the
provisions of this section, have been dealt with in accordance with
section 72.
Compulsory 56. Where the Monetary Board is of the opinion that—
liquidation
(a) the assets of licensed commercial bank whose voluntary liquidation,
it has authorised, will not be sufficient for the full discharge of all
its obligations; or
(b) the completion of voluntary liquidation is unduly delayed,
it shall forthwith take steps to revoke the license issued to such bank and
commence proceedings for the compulsory liquidation of such bank in conformity
with the procedures set out hereunder.
Director to take 57. When the cancellation of the license of a licensed commercial
charge of all books bank incorporated or established in Sri Lanka has become final in terms of
,records and assets
subsection (3) of section 9, the licensed commercial bank shall forthwith suspend
its business within and outside Sri Lanka, and the Director of Bank Supervision
shall direct that liquidation proceedings in accordance with the provisions of this
Act be taken. As soon as possible after initiating the liquidation proceedings an
inventory of the assets and contingent liabilities of the licensed commercial bank
shall be made and a copy thereof transmitted to the Monetary Board, which copy
shall be available at the office of the Monetary Board for examination by the
parties having an interest in the business of such bank.
58. (1) The Director of Bank Supervision shall be vested with the
Director of Bank
Supervision to full and exclusive power of management and control of the affairs of any licensed
have full commercial bank for the purpose of compulsory liquidation and shall have the
management
power—
and control for the
purpose of
liquidation. (a) to wind up its operations by the institution of liquidation proceedings
[ § 22, 2 of 2005.] in courts;
(b) to stop or limit the payments of its obligations;
(c) to execute any instrument in the name of the licensed commercial
bank; and
52
(d ) to initiate, defend and conduct in its name any action or proceedings
to which the licensed commercial bank may be a party.
(2) The Director of Bank Supervision may, engage the services of any
[ § 22, 2 of 2005.]
professionally qualified person to assist him in relation to the exercise of the
functions of the liquidator in a compulsory winding up of a licensed commercial
bank.
Claims &c., to be 59. Under liquidation proceedings—
extended. Where
liquidation
(a) any term, statutory, contractual or otherwise, on the expiration of which
proceedings
have been instituted a claim or right of the licensed commercial bank would expire or be
extinguished, shall by the operation of this section, be extended by six
months from the date of the commencement of the proceedings;
(b) any attachment or lien, except a lien existing six months prior to the
date as specified in paragraph (a), shall be vacated, and no attachment
or lien, except a lien created by the Director of Bank Supervision, in the
application of the provisions of this Part, shall attach to, any property or
assets of the licensed commercial bank in liquidation;
(c) any transfer of any assets of the licensed commercial bank made after or
in contemplation of its insolvency shall be void.
Power of Director 60. (1) Within a period of six months from the date on which the
of Bank
cancellation of a license becomes final, the Director of Bank Supervision may,
Supervision to
subject to the provisions of any other law for the time being in force, terminate—
terminate
contracts &c.
(a) any contract of employment entered into with such bank;
(b) any contract for services to which such licensed commercial
bank was a party; or
(c) any obligation of the licensed commercial banks including its
obligations, if any, as a lessee.
(2) A lessor who shall have received ninety days notice that the
Director of Bank Supervision is exercising discretionary powers to terminate the
lease shall have no claim for rent other than rent accrued on the date of termination
of the lease, nor for damages by reason of such termination.
61. As soon as possible after the cancellation of a license becomes final, the
Termination of
fiduciary Director of Bank Supervision shall make a final distribution by taking such steps as
functions. are necessary to terminate all functions performed in a fiduciary capacity by the
licensed commercial bank and return all assets and property held by the licensed
commercial bank as a fiduciary to the owners thereof, and settle its fiduciary
accounts.
Director of 62. As soon as possible after the cancellation of a license becomes final, the
Bank Supervision to Director of Bank Supervision shall dispatch by registered post to all depositors,
issue statement to
depositors &c.
53
owners, other creditors, safe deposit box lessees, and the bailors of property held
by the licensed commercial bank, a statement of the nature and amount for which
their claim is shown in the licensed commercial bank’s books. The statement shall
specify that any objections if any must be filed with the Director of Bank
Supervision before a specified date not later than sixty days from the issue thereof,
and shall invite safe deposit box lessees and bailors to withdraw their property in
person. The Director of Bank Supervision may, subject to confirmation by the
Monetary Board, obtained prior to the commencement of the sixty day period,
exempt the dispatch of the statements by post to specified persons upon the
licensed commercial bank showing reasonable cause therefor.
Safe deposit 63. (1) Any safe deposit box, the contents of which have not been withdrawn
boxes. before the date specified, shall be opened in the manner prescribed by the Director
of Bank Supervision. The contents and any unclaimed property shall be held by the
licensed commercial bank as bailee, and—
(a) all monies shall, upon direction by the Monetary Board, be transferred
to a special account in the Central Bank;
(b) any article other than money shall, upon direction by the Monetary
Board, be referred to the Minister for a direction as to the method of
disposal of the same.
(2) The money referred to in paragraph (a) and articles referred to in
paragraph (b) shall be deemed to be abandoned property in terms of the provisions
of Part IX, if the owner thereof, has, over a period of ten years from the date of
deposit of such money or articles, as the case may be, not evidenced an interest in
the same. The provisions of section 72 shall apply in respect of such items as from
the date of their transfer.
Functions of Director 64. Within three months after the date specified in the notice for filing of
of Bank Supervision in objections or such longer period as may be determined by Monetary Board, the
relation to liquidation
Director of Bank Supervision shall—
proceedings of a
licensed commercial
bank. (a) reject any claim if he doubts the validity thereof;
(b) determine the amount, if any, owing to each identifiable depositor or other
creditor and the priority attaching to his claim under the provisions of this
Act;
(c) prepare a Schedule of the scheme of work he proposes to take;
(d) notify each person whose claim has not been allowed in full, and publish
once a week for three consecutive weeks, a notice in three daily newspapers
in the Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, which contains an intimation
of the date and place, where the Schedule of the scheme of work he
proposes to take, will be available for inspection. The date so intimated,
shall be a date not sooner than thirty days from the date of the third
publication in the newspaper, upon which the Director of Bank Supervision
will file the Schedule in Court.
54
Objection to 65 . Within twenty one days after filing of the schedule referred to in
Schedule. paragraph (c) of section 64, any depositor, creditor, shareholder or other interested
person may file objections to any step proposed to be taken. Any objections so filed
shall be considered by the Court upon such notice to the Director of Bank
Supervision and interested parties as the Court may specify. If an objection is
sustained, the Court shall direct that an appropriate modification be made to the
Schedule. After filing the Schedule the Director of Bank Supervision may, from
time to time, make partial distribution to the holders of claims which are
undisputed or which have been allowed by the Court, on condition that a proper
reserve is established for the payment of disputed claims. As soon as possible after
all objections have been decided upon, the Director of Bank Supervision shall
make the final distribution.
Priority of claims. 66. (1) The claims set out hereunder shall have priority as against the
[ § 23, 2 of 2005.]
general assests of the licensed commercial bank in the order indicated below:—
(a) necessary and reasonable expenses incurred by the liquidator in winding
up;
(b) wages and salaries of officers and employees of the bank for the three
month period immediately preceding the commencement of winding up
proceedings;
(c) taxes, rates and deposits owed to the Government and local authorities
by the licensed commercial bank;
(d) fees and assessments due to the Central Bank;
(e) funds deposited in any account with the licensed commercial bank with
interest accrued thereon, upto a limit of twenty thousand in respect of any
account;
(f) other deposits with interest if any, accrued thereon.
(2) After payment of all other claims filed, with interest thereon
calculated at a rate to be fixed by the Director of Bank Supervision, with the
approval of the Court, any remaining claims which were not filed within the
prescribed time shall be paid.
(3) If the amount available in respect of a particular category of claims is
insufficient to provide payment in full, the said amount shall be distributed pro-rata
among the parties of that claim.
Distribution of assets 67. Any assets remaining after all claims have been paid shall be
distributed among all the shareholders in proportion to their participation.
Unclaimed assets 68. Funds remaining unclaimed after the final distribution referred to in
section 61 is made, which are not subject to the other provisions under this Act,
shall upon direction by the Monetary Board, be transferred to a special account in
55
the Central Bank. The Monetary Board may utilise such funds for such purposes as
may be determined by Monetary Board after consultation with the Minister. The
funds shall be abandoned property, in terms of Part IX of this Act, if the owner has
not, within the ten years immediately preceding the date of the final distribution
under section 61, evidenced any interest in the funds. Section 72 shall apply in
respect of such funds as from the time of their transfer under this section.
69. Once all assets have been distributed in accordance with the
Audited accounts
shall be submitted to provisions of this Act, the Director of Bank Supervision shall render an audited
the courts. account to Court. Upon approval of the account by Court, and where the Court
makes an order to terminate the liquidation, the Monetary Board shall be relieved
of any liability in connection with the liquidation. The Director of Bank
Supervision shall proceed to terminate the judicial existence of the licensed
commercial bank concerned, in accordance with such provisions of the Companies
Act, No. 17 of 1982, and applicable thereto, which are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act.
70. (1) When a licensed commercial bank incorporated outside Sri
Closure of Licensed
commercial banks Lanka wishes to close down its business in Sri Lanka the approval of the Monetary
outside Sri Lanka Board for the closure shall be granted, subject to such terms and conditions as the
Board may specify. Where approval is granted by the Board, the affairs of the
licensed commercial bank in Sri Lanka shall be wound up in accordance with the
procedures set out in subsection (4).
(2) When a cancellation of the license of a licensed commercial
bank incorporated outside Sri Lanka has been made final under subsection (3) of
section 9, the licensed commercial bank shall terminate its business in Sri Lanka
and its affairs shall be wound up in accordance with the provisions of subsection
(4).
(3) When liquidation proceedings in respect of a licensed commercial
bank incorporated outside Sri Lanka are started at the place where the head office
is located, the Monetary Board shall order the closure of the licensed commercial
bank in Sri Lanka.
(4) When the business of the licensed commercial bank is closed down
under subsection (1) or (2) or (3), the licensed commercial bank which is the
subject of liquidation, shall retain only such powers as are necessary to wind up its
affairs within Sri Lanka, which shall be done expeditiously and in an orderly
manner. The Director of Bank Supervision shall supervise the winding up under
subsection (1) or (2) or (3) of this section, in accordance with the provisions of
subsections (1) and (3) of section 11, take all measures necessary to ensure that no
assets owned by the licensed commercial bank, which is the subject of liquidation
are removed from Sri Lanka until all obligations and liabilities incurred by such
bank, to which the undertaking referred to in paragraph ( c) of subsection 2 of
section 3 relates, have been met in accordance with the undertaking. The
provisions of section 63 and 68 shall apply to the winding up of the affairs under
this section.
56
(5) Where the Monetary Board is of the opinion that the licensed
commercial bank has discharged all the obligations referred to in the preceding
provisions of this section, the name of such bank shall be removed from the list of
licensed commercial banks.
This Part to prevail 71. In the event of conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of
over any other law this Part of this Act and the provisions of the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422) or
the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982, the provisions of this Part shall prevail.
PART IX
ABANDONED PROPERTY
72. (1) In addition to the articles referred to in sections 63 and 68 the articles
enumerated in subsection (2) of this section, held by a licensed commercial bank
other than such articles so held by an offshore unit of a licensed commercial bank,
shall be presumed to be abandoned if the owner has, within a period of ten years
immediately after the date of deposit, or payment of funds towards the purchase of
shares or other interests, or issuing of instruments, or the date upon which funds
held in a fiduciary capacity became payable, or capable of being distributed, or the
expiration of the period for which the safe deposit box was rented, as the case may
be—
(a) not increased or decreased the amount of the deposit or funds or
presented the pass book or other record for the crediting of interest
or dividends in respect of the articles enumerated in paragraphs (a)
and (b) of subsection (2) of this section;
(b) not increased or decreased the principal or accepted payment of
principal or income in respect of funds held in a fiduciary capacity;
(c) not had any correspondence with the licensed commercial bank
concerning such articles;
(d) not otherwise indicated an interest in the articles as evidenced by a
memorandum concerning them by the licensed commercial bank.
(2) The following shall be the articles referred to in subsection (1):—
(a) any general deposit (demand, savings or matured time deposit)
made in Sri Lanka with that licensed commercial bank together with
any interest or dividend thereon excluding any lawful charges;
(b) any funds paid in Sri Lanka towards the purchase of shares or other
interests in a licensed commercial bank together with any interest or
dividend, excluding any lawful charges;
(c) any sum payable on cheques or on written instruments, on which the
licensed commercial bank is directly liable;
57
(d) any intangible personal property and any income or interest thereon
held in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of another person;
(e) any contents of a safe deposit box upon which the rental period has
expired and concerning which notice has been sent by registered post
to the last known address of the lessee and to which the lessee has
failed to respond within three years.
73. (1) Any licensed commercial bank holding any abandoned
Abandoned property
to be transferred to a property referred to in section 72, shall make a report to the Monetary Board in
special account. such form as the Monetary Board may determine stating the nature of the articles
held and in the case of money, the amount of money.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in any other law, all monies included in
the report shall, if the Monetary Board directs, be transferred by the licensed
commercial bank to a special account in the Central Bank and may be utilised by
the Monetary Board for such purposes as may be determined by the Monetary
Board after consultation with the Minister.
(3) The articles included in the report that do not fall under
subsection (2) shall be referred by the Monetary Board to the Minister for such
action as he shall prescribe.
Publication of 74. Within thirty days from the submission of the report required by subsection
notice regarding
(1) of section 73, the licensed commercial bank shall publish a notice in the
abandoned property.
Sinhala, Tamil and English daily newspapers stating the name of the owner and
particulars concerning the property and shall dispatch, by registered post a notice to
the owner to his last known address containing particulars concerning the property,
provided that the Monetary Board may exempt the licensed commercial bank from
the mailing of such notice upon the licensed commercial bank showing reasonable
cause therefor.
Repayment by 75. (1) Where any person furnishes proof to the satisfaction of the Monetary
the Central Bank Board that moneys lying to the credit of an account which was in his name or in the
name of a person from whom he derives title, have been transferred to a special
account in the Central Bank under section 73, shall, subject to such terms,
conditions or restrictions as are imposed in respect of such money by or under any
written law, be entitled to the repayment of such moneys by the Central Bank
together with the interest payable on such moneys up to the date of such
repayment, in accordance with such rates and conditions as are applicable to the
account to the credit of which such money were lying before they were transferred
to the special account in the Central Bank.
Failure to deliver
property presumed to be
76. Any licensed commercial bank which fails to file the report or to pay or
assumed to be
deliver property presumed to be abandoned as required by section 74 shall be
abandoned to be an
offence. guilty of an offence under this Act.
58
