Provided, however, the percentage determined by the Monetary Board shall
not be less than twenty per centum and not more than forty per centum of the total
of its liabilities, less its liabilities to the Central Bank and to the shareholders
(2) The Director of Bank Supervision may, by notice in writing, require
every licensed commercial bank to furnish to him such return or returns as he may
deem necessary for the purposes of satisfying himself that the provisions of
subsection (1) have been complied with, and every licensed commercial bank so
noticed, shall furnish such return or returns as may be required.
(3) Any licensed commercial bank which fails to comply with the
provisions of subsection (1) shall, within such time as may be determined by the
Monetary Board, pay to the Central Bank a charge on the amount of the deficiency
calculated at such rate as may be determined by the Monetary Board.
(4) Any licensed commercial bank which fails to comply with the
provisions of subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
22. No licensed commercial bank incorporated or established within Sri Lanka
Payment of dividends
by or under any written law shall pay any dividend on its shares and no licensed
commercial bank incorporated outside Sri Lanka shall transfer abroad any profits
earned in Sri Lanka until all its capitalized expenses, including its preliminary
expenses in other items of expenditure not represented by tangible assets, have
been completely written off.
PART IV
OFF-SHORE BANKING BUSINESS
License to engage 23. Unless authorized under section 76D, no off-shore banking business shall be
in off shore banking carried on except by a commercial bank licensed to carry on off-shore banking and
business
such bank shall carry on its business in accordance with such off-shore banking
[ § 12, 2 of 2005.]
scheme formulated by the Monetary Board:
Provided that the banks specified in Schedule I, which on the appointed date are
carrying on off-shore banking business under the ―Foreign Currency Banking
Scheme‖ established by the Monetary Board shall be issued a licence in terms of
section 5 enabling such banks to carry on off-shore banking business under this
Part.
Parts III, V and VI
24. (1) All off-shore operation of a licensed commercial bank under this Part,
not to apply to
shall be carried on by its off-shore unit, and subject to the provisions of subsection
off-shore banking
in certain (2), Parts III, V and VI of this Act, shall not apply in respect of such off-shore
circumstances. banking business.
[ § 15, 33 of
1995.]
(2) The Monetary Board may by notice published in the
Gazette declare, that all or any of the provisions contained in Parts III, V and VI of
this Act shall apply in respect of all off-shore banking business of a licensed
commercial bank in general or in respect of its off-shore banking business with
residents only.
26
Nature of 25. The Monetary Board may, by order made with the
business an
approval of the Minister, authorise an off-shore unit of a licensed commercial bank
off-shore unit
subject to such terms and conditions as the Monetary Board may, with the approval
is authorised
to carry on. of the Minister, impose, having regard to the interests of national economy, to
carry on all or any of the following businesses:—
[ § 13, 2 of 2005.] (a) accept savings, time and demand deposits from any non-resident in any
designated foreign currency provided that, in the case of time deposits the
value of such deposits shall not be less than ten thousand United States
dollars or its equivalent in any other designated foreign currency or such
higher amount as may be determined by the Monetary Board: and provided
that funds in any account maintained in an off-shore unit shall not be
withdrawable by cheque;
(b) borrow any sum in a designated foreign currency from any non-resident;
(c) extend accommodation to any non-resident in any designated foreign
currency;
(d) engage in any transaction in any designate foreign currency with any other
off-shore unit; and
(e) engage in any other transaction authorised by the Monetary Board with the
approval of the Minister, in any designated foreign currency.
Monetary Board to 26. The Monetary Board may, with the approval of the Minister, by
Authorize off-shore order authorise licensed commercial banks to engage in off-shore banking business
Banking business.
in any or all of the businesses specified under section 25 with a resident, subject to
[ § 16, 33 of1995.]
such terms and conditions as the Monetary Board may specify with the approval of
the Minister having regard to the interests of national economy.
Off-shore units to 27. Every licensed commercial bank shall, in respect of its off-shore unit,
prepare income prepare—
statements
(a) a balance sheet as at the last working day of each financial year of
such licensed commercial bank;
(b) a profit and loss account in respect of such year.
Monetary Board to 28. The Monetary Board may specify the form of the balance sheet and
specify form of the a profit and loss account referred to in section 27 and the balance sheet and
balance sheet and
profit and loss account shall be prepared in such form as is specified.
income statement.
Part III, VI, VII of 29. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), the provisions of Parts III,
chap.V of the
VI and VII of Chapter V of the Monetary Law Act shall not apply in respect of off-
Monetary Law Act not
shore banking business of a licensed commercial bank.
to apply in certain
circumstances.
27
(2) The Monetary Board may, by notice published in the Gazette, declare
that all or any of the provisions of Parts III, VI, and VII of Chapter V of the
Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422), shall apply in respect of the off-shore banking
business of a licensed commercial bank in general or in respect of its off-shore
banking business with residents only.
30. (1) Every licensed commercial bank engaged in off-shore Banking
Preparation of
annual report business, shall appoint annually, a qualified auditor to audit the accounts of its off-
shore unit and such auditor shall submit a report to such licensed commercial bank
in respect of the accounts, balance sheet and profit and loss account of such off-
shore unit. The auditor shall state in his report whether in his opinion, the balance
sheet and profit and loss account are full and fair and properly drawn up and
whether they exhibit a true and correct statement of affairs of the licensed
commercial bank.
(2) A certified copy of the report shall be sent to the Monetary Board and if the
Monetary Board is of the opinion that the auditor has not discharged his duty to the
best of his ability, the Board may order the licensed commercial bank to appoint
another auditor for the purpose of preparing a fresh report.
Monetary Board to 31. The Monetary Board may cause an examination of any off-shore unit to be
causes examination made by officers duly authorised by it, in that behalf, in consequence of the
consequent to
auditor’s report, or the auditor’s failure to submit a report, or because of other
auditors report
relevant information that affords the Monetary Board reasonable grounds to
believe that the off-shore unit is not in a sound financial condition or that it is
engaging in fraudulent, unsafe or unsound banking practices or that the
requirements of this Part have not been complied with in carrying on of its
business.
Maintenance of 32. Every off-shore banking unit shall maintain the books, minutes, accounts,
books and cash securities, vouchers, other documents and records as may be determined by
records& c.
the Monetary Board, having regard to the nature of the business carried on by such
off-shore unit.
PPowers of the
Director of 33. (1) It shall be lawful for the Director of Bank Supervision or any officer
Bank Supervision of the Department of Bank Supervision or any officer authorised under section
Over off-shore unit.
31—
(a) to require any director, officer or employee of any off-shore unit to
furnish him with such information as he may consider necessary to
obtain, for the purpose of ascertaining the true condition of the affairs
of any off-shore unit;
(b) to require any such director, officer, or employee to produce for
inspection by him at such time as he may specify any books, minutes,
accounts, cash securities, vouchers, other documents and records in
the possession of such director, officer or employee containing or
likely to contain any such information.
28
(2) It shall be the duty of every director, officer or employee of any
off-shore unit to afford to the Director of Bank Supervision or to any officer of his
department or any officer authorised under section 31 whenever required so to do,
in terms of subsection (1), the fullest opportunity to examine books, minutes,
accounts, cash securities, vouchers, other documents and records in his possession
containing or likely to contain any such information.
(3) If any books, minutes, accounts, cash securities, vouchers other
documents and records are not produced or information not furnished in
accordance with the provisions of subsection (2), the officer so defaulting shall be
guilty of an offence under this Act.
34. Subject to the provisions of this Part, the Monetary Board
Power of
may, from time to time, call for information, reports and returns as it may deem
Monetary Board
to call for necessary for the purposes of this Part and may publish information and data
information. extracted therefrom which does not disclose particulars of individual transactions.
34B. (1) Every officer of a licensed commercial bank operating
Secrecy
Numbered account on behalf of a customer and every person, who
2,39 of 1990
19, 33 of 1995 by reason of his capacity or office, has any access to the records,
registers, correspondence or any other material of such bank relating to
such numbered account shall keep absolute secrecy with regard to the contents
thereof, in the interests of the customer to whom the account relates.
(2) Where a licensed commercial bank has opened a numbered
account on behalf of a customer, the identity of the owner of the numbered account
shall be absolutely inviolate and every officer of such licensed commercial bank
and every other person referred to in subsection (1) shall not give, divulge or reveal
any information whatsoever regarding tine name or identity of the owner of such
numbered account to any individual, corporation, bank, court, institution, entity,
department, official, agent, representative of the Government of Sri Lanka or any
other government or to any other legal or natural person, judicial or military
authority, unless—
a. the owner of such numbered account gives his permission so to
do; or
b. legal proceedings are instituted by, or against such licensed
commercial bank by, or against, the owner of such numbered
account relating to a banking transaction arising from such
numbered account; or
c. he is required to do so—
(i) by any provision of any law giving effect to an international
convention on narcotics or hijacking, in any criminal
proceedings instituted under that law, in any court;
(ii) by an order of the Supreme Court, made on application
therefore, on the ground that moneys in such account have
been, or are being, used in furtherance of an act which
constitutes an offence under the Prevention of Terrorism
Act, No. 48 of 1979.
29
(3) For the purpose of this section ― numbered account ‖ means an
account opened with a licensed commercial bank authorized by the Monetary
Board under repealed section 34A, that is identified only by a number, code, word
or such other means as was determined by the Monetary Board.
(4) Notwithstanding the repeal of Part IVA by the Banking (Amendment)
Act, No. 33 of 1995, the holder of a numbered account shall, within a period of two
years commencing from such date as may be determined by the Monetary Board
by Notification published in the Gazette, close such account and until the close of
the account be entitled to operate that account: Provided however no funds
shall be credited to any such numbered account, save and except any sum that may
be payable as interest on the moneys deposited in such account. Where the owner
of a numbered account fails to close such account within the period specified, such
account shall, from and after the date of expiry of that period, cease to enjoy the
facilities granted to it by virtue of it being a numbered account.
PART V
ACCOUNTS, AUDIT, INFORMATION AND INSPECTION.
Preparation of 35. Every licensed commercial bank shall prepare at the expiration of each
balance sheet financial year—
and profit and
loss account.
(a) balance sheet as at the last working day of such financial year;
(b) a profit and loss account in respect of such year;
Balance sheet 36. (1) The balance sheet of a licensed commercial bank shall set out the
state of affairs of such bank as at the end of the financial year to which such
balance sheet relates.
(2) There shall be shown in the balance sheet or in any statement annexed
thereto and shall present as a minimum of the following —
(a) capitalized expenses not represented by tangible assets under
separate headings, so far as they are not written off;
(b) the market value of investments;
(c) the method adopted to value fixed assets if there had been any
valuation of such assets during the financial year;
(d) the aggregate amounts of advances after the provisions for bad and
doubtful debts;
(e) any increase or decrease in the provision for depreciation, renewals
or diminution in the value of fixed assets;
(f) cash flow statement.
30
