(3) A determination made under this section shall apply uniformly
to all companies and bodies corporate incorporated outside Sri Lanka, which apply
for a licence after each such determination.
Issue of licence. 5 (1) Where the Monetary Board is satisfied that a licence may be issued to a
company or a proposed company to carry on banking business, it may, with the
approval of the Minister, issue a licence to the company or proposed company to
carry on banking business in Sri Lanka subject to such terms and conditions as may
be imposed by the Monetary Board.
(2) The licence issued under subsection (1) shall specify—
(a) whether it authorizes the company to carry on domestic banking
business or off-shore banking business or both such businesses;
(b) the place or places or the area within which such banking business may
be carried on; and
(c) the terms and conditions subject to which such licence is issued.
(3) Every licensed commercial bank shall display a copy of the licence issued
to it under subsection (1) in a conspicuous place at its principal place of business in
Sri Lanka and each of its branches.
6. Subject to the provisions of section 17, no licensed commercial bank
Limits imposed on all
licensed commercial shall—
banks.
(a) carry on any banking business other than the business specified in
the licence; or
(b) carry on any other form of business other than those specified in
Schedule II to this Act.
Bank of Ceylon, 7. Nothing contained in the provisions of section 6 shall be construed so as to
People’s Bank
restrict the Bank of Ceylon or the People’s Bank, established under the Bank of
&c., not to be
Ceylon Ordinance (Chapter 397), the Peoples Bank Act, No. 29 of 1961,
restricted by
preceding respectively and any Regional Rural Development Bank established under the
provisions in Regional Rural Development Bank Act, No. 15 of 1985, in the exercise of the
the exercise of powers
powers conferred on each such bank by and under the aforesaid statutes applicable
to each of such banks, respectively.
Payment of licence 8 (1) Every licensed commercial bank shall pay to the Central Bank an
fee annual licence fee as may be determined by the Monetary Board, having regard to
the different classes of banking business carried on by such bank.
(2) The Monetary Board shall inform each such licensed commercial bank
the amount payable as licence fee, and the manner in which such fee shall be paid.
(3) Where a licence fee is determined in respect of classes of banking
business such fee shall apply to all banks carrying on such classes of business.
11
Notice of licence 9 (1) Where the Monetary Board is satisfied that any licensed commercial bank
issued to a licensed has —
commercial bank
of cancellation
(a) failed to commence business within nine months of the issue of the
[ § 5, 2 of 2005.]
license under section 5; or
(b) failed to pay any debts incurred by it, on such debt becoming due; or
(c) had a petition or action for relief filed against such licensed commerial
bank, and has had appointed in respect of such bank under any
bankruptcy law or any other law which provides for relief of debtors or
which relates to debtors, a liquidator or receiver; or
(d) ceased to carry on banking business; or
(e) contravened any provisions of this Act or any direction, order or other
requirement imposed under this Act; or
(f) furnished false, misleading or inaccurate information or documents to
the Monetary Board or in the case of a proposed company the applicant
for the licence has furnished such information or documents in
connection with its application for the licence; or
(g) carried on, or is carrying on, its business in a manner likely to be
detrimental to the interests of its depositors;
the Monetary Board may give notice that it would cancel the licence issued
to such bank and shall communicate such notice to such licensed
commercial bank.
(2) A licensed commercial bank may tender objections in writing to the
Monetary Board against the notice of intended cancellation under subsection (1),
within fourteen days of the date of receipt of such notice, giving reasons why the
licence issued to it under section 5 shall not be so cancelled.
(3) The Monetary Board may, within thirty days from the last date for tendering
objections under subsection (2), after considering the objections if any, tendered to
it under that subsection and after hearing the licensed commercial bank in support
of its objections, either withdraw the notice given under subsection (1) with or
without conditions or cancel the license issued to the licensed commercial bank,
and shall notify the bank in writing accordingly.
(4) A licensed commercial bank aggrieved by a decision of the Monetary
Board made under subsection (3) to impose conditions on the withdrawal of the
notice given under subsection (1) or to cancel its licence, may within fourteen days
of the date of receipt of the notification given under that subsection, appeal against
such decision to the Court of Appeal.
(5) Until rules are made under Article 136 of the Constitution of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka relating to appeals under this section, the rules
12
