SCHEDULE I [Section 2(4)]
1. Algemene Bank Nederland N.V.
2. American Express bank Ltd
3. Amsterdam-Rotterdam Bank N.V.
4. Bank of Ceylon
5. Bank of Credit & Commerce International (Overseas) Ltd.
6. Bank of Oman Ltd.
7. Banque Indosuez
8. Citibank N.A.
9. Commercial Bank of Ceylon Ltd.
10. Deutsche Bank A.G.
11. Grindlyals Bank Plc.
12. Habib Bank A.G. Zurich
13. Habib Bank Ltd.
14. Hatton National Bank Ltd.
15. Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
16. Indian Bank
17. Indian Overseas Bank
18. Middle East Bank Ltd.
19. People’s Bank
20. Standard Chartered Bank
21. State Bank of India
22. Union Bank of the Middle East Ltd.
23. Sampath Bank Ltd.
24. Seylan Trust Bank Ltd.
25. Any Bank established under the provisions of the Regional Rural
Development Bank Act, No. 15 of 1985.
81
SCHEDULE II [Section 3(4)]
a) opening, maintaining and managing deposit, savings and other similar
account;
b) the borrowing, raising or taking up of money; the lending or advancing
of money either upon or without security; the drawing, making,
accepting, discounting, buying, selling, collecting and dealing in bills of
exchange, hoondees, promissory notes, coupons, drafts, bills of lading,
railway receipts, warrants, debenture certificates, scripts and other
instruments, and securities whether transferable or negotiable or not;
granting and issuing of letters of credit, travellers cheques and circular
notes; the buying, selling and dealing in billion, specie; the buying and
selling of foreign exchange including foreign bank notes; the acquiring,
holding, issuing on commission, underwriting and dealing in stock,
funds, shares, debentures, debenture stock, bonds, obligations, securities
and investments of all kinds; the purchasing and selling of bonds,
scripts or other forms of securities on behalf of constituents or others;
the negotiating of loans and advances; the receiving of all kinds of
bonds, scripts or valuables on deposits, or for safe custody or otherwise
and the carrying on of the business of safe deposits, the collecting and
transmitting of money and securities;
[§40,33 of 1995] c) the carrying on of an agency function for and on behalf of the
Government or local authorities or for or on behalf of any person in
respect of any business related to the provision of financial services, or
to act as the managing agent for any financial institution.
d) Contracting for public and private loans and negotiating and issuing the
same.
e) the promoting, effecting, insuring, guaranteeing, under writing,
participating in managing and carrying out of any issue, public or
private, of state, municipal or other loans or of shares, stock debentures
or debenture stock of any company, corporation or association and the
lending of money for the purpose of any such issue;
f) carrying on and transacting every kind of guarantee and indemnity
business;
g) promoting or financing or assisting in promoting or financing any
business undertaking or industry either existing or new, and developing
or forming the same either through the instrumentality of syndicates or
otherwise;
h) acquisition by purchase, lease, exchange, hire or otherwise of any
property immovable or movable and any rights or privileges which the
company may think necessary or convenient to acquire or the
acquisition of which in the opinion of the company is likely to facilitate
82
