u) engaging in the business of hire-purchase services, factoring, leasing
and warehousing;
v) providing for medium and long term credit development;
w) the business of pawn broking;
[§40,33 of 1995]
[§40,33 of 1995] x) entering into arrangements for a joint venture with any person or
company for conducting a financial services enterprise or conducting
any enterprise providing support services for the conduct of its business.
y) the acceptance of a sum of money in any manner or form from any
[§41,2 of 2005]
person for a fixed period of time for investment in a business venture of
the bank on the basis that profits or losses of the venture will be shared
with the person from whom such money is accepted in a manner
determined at the time the money is accepted;
z) the purchase of goods, to be sold immediately upon purchase to a buyer
[§41,2 of 2005]
on deferred payment terms provided that the goods and their suppliers
are specified by such buyer and the price at which such goods are sold
to the buyer and the deferred payment terms are determined at the time
the bank agrees with the buyer to purchase the said goods for sale to the
buyer.
aa) any other business which the Monetary Board may authorise a licensed
[§40,33 of 1995]
commercial bank to engage in.
84
SCHEDULE III [Section 76A (3)]
[§40,33 of 1995] 1. National Development Bank of Sri Lanka established by the National
Development Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No. 2 of 1979.
2. Development Finance Corporation established by the Development Finance
Corporations Act, No. 35 of 1955.
3. State Mortgage and Investment Bank established by State Mortgage and
Investment Bank Act, No. 13 of 1975.
4. National Savings Bank established by the National Savings Bank Act, No.
30 of 1971.
5. Housing Development Finance Corporation (Bank) of Sri Lanka
established by the Housing Development Finance Corporation of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 7 of 1997.
SCHEDULE IV [Section 76C (4)]
[§41, 33 of 1995] a) accepting time and savings deposits and opening, maintaining and
managing deposit, savings and other similar accounts excluding
however the carrying on of banking business as defined in the Act.
b) granting loans and advances or participating with other financial
institutions in granting loans or advances or participating with other
financial institutions in granting loans or advances to any enterprise
engaged or about to engage in industry, agriculture or commerce or to
any other enterprise;
c) granting loans and advances by way of refinance of any loans or
advances granted by financial institutions to industrial agricultural
commercial and other enterprises
d) granting loans or advances—
i. for the purchase or lease of any land for the construction of a
dwelling house;
ii. for the construction, repairs, renovation or extension of a
dwelling house;
iii. for the purchase or lease of a dwelling house;
iv. for any purpose incidental, accessory or ancillary to any
purpose mentioned in (i), ( ii) and (iii) above; or
85
