Arbitration Act. No. 11 of 1995 1
(Certified on 30th June-1995)
L.D. – O.10/93
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE CONDUCT OF ARBITRATION PROCEEDINGS: TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE
CONVENTION ON THE RECOGNITION AND ENFORCEMENT OF FOREIGN ARBITRAL AWARDS: TO REPEAL THE
ARBITRATION ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 93) AND CERTAIN SECTIONS OF THE CIVIL PROCEDURE CODE (CHAPTER 101): AND
TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
WHEREAS it is necessary to make comprehensive legal provision for the conduct of arbitration
proceedings and the enforcement of awards made thereunder:
AND WHEREAS it is necessary to make legal provision to give effect to the principles of the Convention on
the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards of 1958:
BE It therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:
1. This Act may be cited as the Arbitration Act No. 11 of 1995 and shall come into operation on such date
Short title and
as the Minister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as the“ appointed
date of
date” ). operation.
PART I
PRELIMINARY
2 (1) The provisions of this Act shall, subject to the provisions of Section 48, apply to all
Application.
arbitration proceedings commenced in Sri Lanka after the appointed date, whether the arbitration
agreement in pursuance of which such arbitration proceedings are commenced, was entered into
before or after the appointed date.
(2) Where arbitration proceedings were commenced prior to the appointed date, the law
in force prior to the appointed date, shall, unless the parties otherwise agree, apply to such
arbitration proceedings.
(3) Where the State is a party to an arbitration agreement (whether in right of the
Republic or in any other capacity) the State shall be bound by the provision of this Act.
Arbitration Act No. 11 of 1995 2
PART II
ARBITRATION AGREEMENT
Form of a rbitration
agreement
agreement. 3. (1) An arbitration agreement may be in the form of an arbitration clause in a contract or
in the form of a separate agreement.
(2) An arbitration agreement shall be in writing. An agreement shall be deemed to be in
writing if it is contained in a document signed by the parties or in an exchange of letters, telexes,
telegrams or other means of telecommunication which provide a record of the agreement.
Arbitrability of
4. Any dispute which the parties have agreed to submit to arbitration under an arbitration
the dispute
agreement may be determined by arbitration unless the matter in respect of which the arbitration
agreement is entered into is contrary to public policy or, is not capable of determination by
arbitration.
5. Where a party to an arbitration agreement institutes legal proceedings in a
Jurisdiction
of Court in
court against another party to such agreement in respect of a matter agreed to be submitted for
respect of
dispute
arbitration under such agreement, the Court shall have no jurisdiction to hear and determine such
covered by
arbitration matter if the other party objects to the court exercising jurisdiction in respect of such matter.
agreement.
PART III
COMPOSITION OF THE ARBITRAL TRIBUNAL
6. (1) The parties shall be free to determine the number of arbitrators of an arbitral tribunal
Number of
Arbitrators subject to the provisions of subsection (3) of this section.
(2) Where no such determination is made, the number of arbitrators shall be three.
(3) Where the parties appoint an even number of arbitrators, the arbitrators so appointed
shall jointly appoint an additional arbitrator who shall act as Chairman.
7. (1) The parties shall be free to agree on a procedure for appointing the arbitrators, subject
Appointment of
arbitrators
to the provisions of this Act.
3
Arbitration Act No. 11 of 1995
(2) In the absence of such agreement –
