(3) Where the mandate of an arbitrator is terminated, proceedings shall not be had de-
novo unless the parties otherwise agree.
9. Where the mandate of an arbitrator terminates under section 8, a substitute arbitrator
Appointment of
shall be appointed in the manner applicable to the appointment of the arbitrator whose
substitute
arbitrator.
mandate has terminated.
10. (1) Where a person is requested to accept appointment as an arbitrator, he shall first
Grounds for
disclose any circumstances likely to give rise to justifiable doubts as to his impartiality or
challenge.
independence, and shall, from the time of his appointment and throughout the arbitral
proceedings, disclose without delay any circumstances referred to in this subsection to all the
parties and to the other arbitrators, unless they have already been so informed by the
arbitrator.
(2) An arbitrator may be challenged only if circumstances exist that give rise to justifiable
doubts as to his impartiality or independence. A party may challenge an arbitrator appointed by
him, or in whose appointment he has participated, only for reasons of which he becomes aware
after the appointment was made.
(3) A party who seeks to challenge an arbitrator shall, unless the parties have decided that
the decision shall be taken by some other person, first do so before the arbitral tribunal, within
thirty days of his becoming aware of the circumstances which give rise to doubts about the
arbitrators’ impartiality or independence.
(4) Where a party who makes an application to an arbitral tribunal under this section, is
dissatisfied with the order of the tribunal on such application, he may within thirty days of the
receipt of the decision, appeals from that order to the High Court.
Arbitration Act No. 11 of 1995 5
PART IV
JURISDICTION OF THE ARBITRAL TRIBUNAL
11. (1) An Arbitral tribunal may rule on its jurisdiction including any question, with respect to
the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement or as to whether such agreement is contrary
Competence of
Arbitral
Tribunal.
to public policy or is incapable of being performed; but any party to the arbitral proceedings may
apply to the High Court for a determination of any such question.
(2) Where an application has been made to the High Court under subsection
(1) the arbitral tribunal may continue the arbitral proceedings pending the determination of such
question by the High Court.
12. An arbitration agreement which forms part of another agreement shall be deemed to
Severability of
agreement
constitute a separate agreement when ruling upon the validity of that arbitration agreement for the
purpose of determining the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal.
13. (1) An arbitral tribunal may, at the request of a party, order any other party to take such
Interim measures as it may consider necessary to protect or secure the claim which forms the subject Interim
measures of
matter of the dispute. The arbitral tribunal may also order the party making such request to provide
protection
the party ordered to take such interim measures, with security for any expense, loss or damage that
may be caused in taking such interim measures :
Provided however that, other than in exceptional cases no such order shall be made except
after hearing the other parties.
(2) An order of an arbitral tribunal requiring the taking of interim measures may be
enforced by the High Court, on an application made therefore, by the party requesting the taking of
such interim measures.
(3) An application to the High Court, under subsection (2), for the enforcement of interim
measures, shall be deemed not to be incompatible with section 5 or the arbitration agreement or a
waiver of the agreement.
Arbitration Act No. 11 of 1995 6
14. (1) It shall not be incompatible with arbitration proceedings for an arbitral tribunal to
Settlement
encourage settlement of the dispute and, with the agreement of the parties, the arbitral tribunal may
use mediation, conciliation or any other procedure at any time during the arbitral proceedings to
encourage settlement.
(2) If, during arbitral proceedings the parties settle the dispute, the arbitral tribunal shall if
requested by the parties, record the settlement in the form of an arbitral award on agreed terms.
(3) An arbitral award on agreed terms shall be made in accordance with Section 25 and
shall State that it is an arbitral award on agreed terms.
(4) An arbitral award on agreed terms has the same status and effect as any other arbitral
award made in respect of the dispute.
PART V
CONDUCT OF ARBITRATION PROCEEDINGS
15. (1) An arbitral tribunal shall deal with any dispute submitted to it for arbitration in an
Duties of
Arbitral
Impartial, practical and expeditious manner.
Tribunal
(2) An arbitral tribunal shall afford all the parties an opportunity, of presenting their
respective cases in writing or orally and to examine all documents and other material furnished to it
by the other parties or any other person. The arbitral tribunal may, at the request of a party, have an
oral hearing before determining any question before it.
(3) An arbitral tribunal may, notwithstanding the failure of a party without reasonable
cause, to appear before it, or to comply with any order made by it, continue the arbitral proceedings
and determine the dispute on the material available to it.
(4) Parties may, introduce new prayers for relief provided that such prayers for relief fall
within the scope of the arbitration agreement and it is not inappropriate to accept them having
regard to the point of time at which they are introduced and to other circumstances. During the
course of such proceedings, either party may, on like conditions, amend or supplement prayer for
relief introduced earlier and rely on new circumstances in support of their respective cases.
Arbitration Act No. 11 of 1995 7
16. (1) The parties to an arbitration proceeding shall be free to agree on the place of
Place of arbitration. Failing such agreement, the place of arbitration shall be determined by the arbitral
arbitration.
tribunal having regard to the circumstances of the case, including the convenience of the
parties.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) providing for the place of arbitration,
the arbitral tribunal may, unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties, meet at any place it
considers appropriate for consultation among its members, for hearing witnesses, experts or
the parties, or for inspection of goods, other property or documents.
17. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the parties shall be free to agree on the
procedure to be followed by the arbitral tribunal in conducting the proceedings. The power Determination
of rules of
procedures.
