consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 27 48.
the council may determine the procedure to be procedure to be laid down by the followed in the conduct of any inquiry or investigation before council.
such council.
part v fund of the authority 49.
(1) the authority shall have its own fund.
fund of the authority.
(2) there shall be paid into the fund of the authority — (a) all such sums of money as may be voted from time to time by parliament for the use of the authority ; (b) all such sums of money as may be received by the authority by way of fees or otherwise in the discharge of its functions ; (c) the proceeds from the sale of any goods forfeited under this act ; (d) one-third of every fine imposed for the commission of any offence under this act ; (e) all such sums of money as may be made available to it by way of grant or donations ; and (f) all such sums of money as are credited or transferred to the fund under section 59 or section 73.
(3) there shall be paid out of the fund — (a) remuneration payable to the members of the authority and of the council ; 28 consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 (b) such sums as the authority may consider necessary for the promotion, assistance and encouragement of consumer organizations and the administration and development of such organizations ; (c) such sums as the authority may consider necessary for consumer education and the dissemination of information relating thereto, and for any purpose connected with or incidental to the furtherance of such education ; and (d) such sums of money as may be required to defray the expenses incurred by the authority and the council in the exercise, discharge and performance of its powers, functions and duties under this act.
financial year 50.
(1) the financial year of the authority shall be the and the audit of calendar year.
accounts.
(2) the authority shall cause proper books of accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all other transactions of the authority.
(3) the provisions of article 154 of the constitution relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations shall apply to and in respect of the audit of the accounts of the authority.
application of 51.
the provisions of part ii of the finance act, no. 38 of part ii of the 1971, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the financial control finance act, no.
and accounts of the authority.
38 of 1971.
part vi staff of the authority director-general 52.
(1) the authority may with the approval in of the authority.
writing of the minister, appoint a director-general to the authority (in this act referred to as the “director-general”).
(2) the director-general appointed under subsection (1) shall be the chief executive officer of the authority, and shall at all times act under the directions of the authority.