consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 1 [certified on 17th march, 2003] l.d.—o.
27/97.
an act to provide for the establishment of the consumer affairs authority ; for the promotion of effective competition and the protection of consumers ; for the regulation of internal trade ; for the establishment of a consumer affairs council ; for the repeal of the consumer protection act, no. 1 of 1979, the fair trading commission act, no. 1 of 1987 and the control of prices act (chapter 173) ; and for all matters connected therewith or incidental thereto whereas it is the policy of the government of sri lanka preamble.
to provide for the better protection of consumers through the regulation of trade and the prices of goods and services and to protect traders and manufacturers against unfair trade practices and restrictive trade practices : and whereas the government of sri lanka is also desirous of promoting competitive pricing wherever possible and ensure healthy competition among traders and manufacturers of goods and services : now therefore be it enacted by the parliament of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka as follows :— 1. this act may be cited as the consumer affairs short title.
authority act, no. 9 of 2003.
part i establishment of the consumer affairs authority 2. (1) an authority called the consumer affairs establishment of authority (hereinafter referred to as the “authority”) is hereby the consumer affairs authority.
established which shall consist of the persons who are for the time being members of the authority under section 3. 2—h 017420–5,600 (2002/11) 2 consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 (2) the authority shall, by the name assigned to it by subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.
constitution of the 3. (1) the authority shall consist of a chairman and authority.
not less than ten other members who shall be appointed by the minister from among persons who possess recognized qualifications, have had wide experience and have distinguished themselves in the field of industry, law, economics, commerce, administration, accountancy, science or health.
(2) the chairman and three of the members, selected by the minister from among the members appointed under subsection (1), shall be full time members (hereinafter referred to as “full-time members of the authority”).
(3) the members of the authority other than the chairman and the three full time members of the authority shall be paid such remuneration as may be determined by the minister in consultation with the minister in charge of the subject of finance.
(4) the provisions of the schedule to this act, shall have effect in relation to the term of office of the members of the authority, the meetings and seal of the authority.
chairman and full 4.
the chairman and the full time members of the time members.
authority shall each hold office for a period of three years from the date of their respective appointments, and shall be paid for their services such remuneration as may be determined by the minister in consultation with the minister in charge of the subject of finance.
director-general 5.
the director-general of the authority appointed under to act as the section 52, shall act as the secretary to the authority.
secretary to the authority.