consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 29 (3) director-general shall be paid such remuneration as may be determined by the authority in consultation with the minister.
(4) whenever the director-general is by reason of illness or absence from sri lanka or for any other cause, unable to perform the duties of his office, the authority may, with the approval in writing to the minister, appoint some other person to act in his place, during such absence.
53.
the authority may appoint such number of directors, appointment of deputy directors, assistant directors and other officers, officers, servants servants and advisers as are necessary for the performance of and advisers to the the work of the authority and of the council, who shall be authority.
remunerated at such rates as may be determined by the authority in consultation with the minister.
54.
(1) at the request of the authority, any officer in appointment of the public service may, with the consent of that officer and public officers to the secretary to the ministry of the minister in charge of the the staff of the authority.
subject of public administration, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the authority for such period as may be determined by the authority, with like consent, or with like consent be permanently appointed to such staff.
(2) where any officer in the public service is temporarily appointed to the staff of the authority the provisions of subsection (2) of section 14 of the national transport commission act, no. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply and in relation to him.
(3) where any officer in the public service is permanently appointed to the staff of the authority, the provisions of subsection (3) of section 14 of the national transport commission act, no. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation to him.
(4) where the authority employs any person who has agreed to serve the government for a specified period, service to the authority by that person shall be regarded as service to the government for the purpose of discharging the obligations under such agreement.
30 consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 part vii general power of 55.
(1) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any authority to send provisions of this act, the authority may, if it is satisfied after warning.
such inquiry as it may deem necessary that any person has contravened any of the provisions of this act or any direction given thereunder, in the case of the first contravention, send to such person a warning in writing.
(2) a warning under subsection (1) shall be sent by the authority by registered post.
power to require 56.
(1) the authority may, for the proper discharge of maintenance of its functions under this act, require the manufacturers, records and the importers, distributors and exporters of any goods or furnishing of returns.
services— (a) to maintain records in respect of such matters as the authority may consider necessary for the proper discharge of its functions under this act and in such form as may be determined by the authority; and (b) to furnish to the authority returns in respect of such matters as the authority may consider necessary for the proper discharge of its functions under this act, at such intervals and in such form as may be determined by the authority.
(2) it shall be the duty of all manufacturers, importers, distributors and exporters who are required under paragraph (a) of subsection (1) to maintain records, to preserve the records being so maintained, for a period not exceeding six years.