8 consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 (6) where any manufacturer or trader fails or refuses to comply with an order made under subsection (4) of this section, such manufacturer or trader shall be guilty of an offence under this act, and the sum of money due on the order as compensation or refund may, on application being made in that behalf by the authority to the magistrate’s court having jurisdiction over the place of business or residence of such manufacturer or trader as the case may be, be recovered in like manner as a fine imposed by such court, notwithstanding that such sum may exceed the amount of a fine which that court may, in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction, impose. agreement to 14. (1) the authority may enter into such written provide for agreements as it may deem necessary, with any manufacturer maximum price or trader or with any association of manufacturers or traders &c. of goods. to provide for— (a) the maximum price above which any goods shall not be sold; (b) the standards and specifications of any goods manufactured, sold or offered for sale ; (c) any other conditions as to the manufacture, import, supply, storage, distribution, transportation, marketing, labelling or sale of any goods. (2) every written agreement entered into under subsection (1) between the authority and any manufacturer or trader or with any association of manufacturers or traders, shall be binding on every authorised distributor of such manufacturer or trader and every member of such association, as though he was a party to such agreement and whether or not he was a member at the time of entering into the agreement. (3) every manufacturer or trader or any authorised distributor of such manufacturer or trader or any association of manufacturers or traders or any member thereof, who contravenes any provision of any agreement entered into with the authority under subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offence under this act. consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 9 (4) every agreement entered into with the authority under subsection (1), shall be registered with the authority and shall contain a schedule giving the name and description of each authorised distributor of such manufacturer or trader or members of such association, as the case may be. (5) every agreement entered into with the authority under subsection (1), shall come into force from the date of such agreement, unless such agreement provides that the agreement shall come into force on any subsequent date. (6) where the authority thinks fit, it may cause any agreement made under this section to be published in the gazette. where an agreement is published in the gazette, the production of a copy of the gazette in which such agreement is published shall, until the contrary is proved, be proof of the contents of such agreement. (7) for the purpose of any prosecution under this section, a certificate given by the authority that any person is an authorised distributor of any manufacturer or trader or is a member of any association of traders or manufacturers shall be admissible and be prima facie proof in a court of law that such person is an authorised distributor of such manufacturer or trader or a member of such association. 15. (1) no trader who has in his possession or custody refusal to sell or under his control any goods for purpose of trade within goods to be an offence. sri lanka, shall refuse to sell such goods. (2) in any prosecution of any trader for the contravention of the provisions of subsection (1), it shall be a sufficient defence for the accused to prove that — (a) on the occasion in question, he supplied a reasonable quantity of the goods, or had not a sufficient quantity in his possession to supply the quantity; (b) he carried on business in the goods as a wholesale trader only, and that the sale of the quantity demanded by the buyer would have been contrary to the normal practice of a wholesale business ; or