2 consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 (2) the authority shall, by the name assigned to it by subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.
constitution of the 3. (1) the authority shall consist of a chairman and authority.
not less than ten other members who shall be appointed by the minister from among persons who possess recognized qualifications, have had wide experience and have distinguished themselves in the field of industry, law, economics, commerce, administration, accountancy, science or health.
(2) the chairman and three of the members, selected by the minister from among the members appointed under subsection (1), shall be full time members (hereinafter referred to as “full-time members of the authority”).
(3) the members of the authority other than the chairman and the three full time members of the authority shall be paid such remuneration as may be determined by the minister in consultation with the minister in charge of the subject of finance.
(4) the provisions of the schedule to this act, shall have effect in relation to the term of office of the members of the authority, the meetings and seal of the authority.
chairman and full 4.
the chairman and the full time members of the time members.
authority shall each hold office for a period of three years from the date of their respective appointments, and shall be paid for their services such remuneration as may be determined by the minister in consultation with the minister in charge of the subject of finance.
director-general 5.
the director-general of the authority appointed under to act as the section 52, shall act as the secretary to the authority.
secretary to the authority.
consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 3 6.
the authority may for the purpose of discharging its delegation of functions under this act, delegate to any public officer by powers to public officers.
name or office such functions vested in, or imposed upon, or assigned to the authority by or under this act, on such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon between such officer and the authority.
7. the objects of the authority shall be— objects of the authority.
(a) to protect consumers against the marketing of goods or the provision of services which are hazardous to life and property of consumers ; (b) to protect consumers against unfair trade practices and guarantee that consumers interest shall be given due consideration ; (c) to ensure that wherever possible consumers have adequate access to goods and services at competitive prices ; and (d) to seek redress against unfair trade practices, restrictive trade practices or any other forms of exploitation of consumers by traders.
8.
the functions of the authority shall be to— functions of the authority.
(a) control or eliminate— (i) restrictive trade agreements among enterprises; (ii) arrangements amongst enterprises with regard to prices ; (iii) abuse of a dominant position with regard to domestic trade or economic development within the market or in a substantial part of the market ; or (iv) any restraint of competition adversely affecting domestic or international trade or economic development ; 4 consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 (b) investigate or inquire into anti-competitive practices and abuse of a dominant position ; (c) maintain and promote effective competition between persons supplying goods and services ; (d) promote and protect the rights and interests of consumers, purchasers and other users of goods and services in respect of the price, availability and quality of such goods and services and the variety supplied ; (e) to keep consumers informed about the quality, quantity, potency, purity, standards and price of goods and services made available for purchase ; (f) carry out investigations and inquiries in relation to any matter specified in this act ; (g) promote competitive prices in markets where competition is less than effective ; (h) undertake studies, publish reports and provide information to the public relating to market conditions and consumer affairs ; (i) undertake public sector and private sector efficiency studies ; (j) promote consumer education with regard to good health, safety and security of consumers ; (k) promote the exchange of information relating to market conditions and consumer affairs with other institutions ; (l) promote, assist and encourage the establishment of consumer organizations ; (m) charge such fees in respect of any services rendered by the authority ; consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 5 (n) appoint any such committee or committees as may be necessary to facilitate the discharge of the functions of the authority ; and (o)
do all such other acts as may be necessary for attainment of the objects of the authority and for the effective discharge of the functions of such authority.
part ii regulation of trade 9.
the authority may— authority may undertake studies (a) undertake such studies in respect of the sale or supply on the distribution of any class of goods and services as would ensure of goods and services.
the availability to the consumer of such goods and services of satisfactory quality at reasonable prices and in adequate quantities ; (b) promote, assist and encourage the state or other organisations including organisations of consumers, for the purposes described in paragraph (a) ; and (c) assist and encourage associations of traders to enter into agreements with the authority for the purposes described in section 14.
10. (1) the authority may, for the protection of the authority to issue consumer— directions to manufacturers or traders in respect (a) issue general directions to manufacturers or traders of price marking, in respect of labelling, price marking, packeting, sale labelling and or manufacture of any goods ; and packeting of goods.
(b) issue special directions to any class of manufacturers or traders, specifying— (i) the times during which and the places at which, such goods may be sold ; and