28 consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 (b) such sums as the authority may consider necessary for the promotion, assistance and encouragement of consumer organizations and the administration and development of such organizations ; (c) such sums as the authority may consider necessary for consumer education and the dissemination of information relating thereto, and for any purpose connected with or incidental to the furtherance of such education ; and (d) such sums of money as may be required to defray the expenses incurred by the authority and the council in the exercise, discharge and performance of its powers, functions and duties under this act. financial year 50. (1) the financial year of the authority shall be the and the audit of calendar year. accounts. (2) the authority shall cause proper books of accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all other transactions of the authority. (3) the provisions of article 154 of the constitution relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations shall apply to and in respect of the audit of the accounts of the authority. application of 51. the provisions of part ii of the finance act, no. 38 of part ii of the 1971, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the financial control finance act, no. and accounts of the authority. 38 of 1971. part vi staff of the authority director-general 52. (1) the authority may with the approval in of the authority. writing of the minister, appoint a director-general to the authority (in this act referred to as the “director-general”). (2) the director-general appointed under subsection (1) shall be the chief executive officer of the authority, and shall at all times act under the directions of the authority. consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 29 (3) director-general shall be paid such remuneration as may be determined by the authority in consultation with the minister. (4) whenever the director-general is by reason of illness or absence from sri lanka or for any other cause, unable to perform the duties of his office, the authority may, with the approval in writing to the minister, appoint some other person to act in his place, during such absence. 53. the authority may appoint such number of directors, appointment of deputy directors, assistant directors and other officers, officers, servants servants and advisers as are necessary for the performance of and advisers to the the work of the authority and of the council, who shall be authority. remunerated at such rates as may be determined by the authority in consultation with the minister. 54. (1) at the request of the authority, any officer in appointment of the public service may, with the consent of that officer and public officers to the secretary to the ministry of the minister in charge of the the staff of the authority. subject of public administration, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the authority for such period as may be determined by the authority, with like consent, or with like consent be permanently appointed to such staff. (2) where any officer in the public service is temporarily appointed to the staff of the authority the provisions of subsection (2) of section 14 of the national transport commission act, no. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply and in relation to him. (3) where any officer in the public service is permanently appointed to the staff of the authority, the provisions of subsection (3) of section 14 of the national transport commission act, no. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation to him. (4) where the authority employs any person who has agreed to serve the government for a specified period, service to the authority by that person shall be regarded as service to the government for the purpose of discharging the obligations under such agreement.