consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 7 13.
(1) the authority may inquire into complaints authority to regarding— inquire into complaints.
(a) the production, manufacture, supply, storage, transportation or sale of any goods and to the supply of any services which does not conform to the standards and specifications determined under section 12 ; and (b) the manufacture or sale of any goods which does not conform to the warranty or guarantee given by implication or otherwise, by the manufacturer or trader.
(2) a complaint under subsection (1) which relates to the sale of any goods or to the provision of any service shall be made to the authority in writing within three months of the sale of such goods or the provisions of such service, as the case may be.
(3) at any inquiry held into a complaint under subsection (1), the authority shall give the manufacturer or trader against whom such complaint is made an opportunity of being heard either in person or by an agent nominated in that behalf.
(4) where after an inquiry into a complaint, the authority is of opinion that a manufacture or sale of any goods or the provision of any services has been made which does not conform to the standards or specifications determined or deemed to be determined by the authority, or that a manufacture or sale has been made of any goods not conforming to any warranty or guarantee given by implication or otherwise by the manufacturer or trader, it shall order the manufacturer or trader to pay compensation to the aggrieved party or to replace such goods or to refund the amount paid for such goods or the provision of such service, as the case may be.
(5) an order under subsection (4) shall be made in writing and be communicated to such manufacturer or trader by registered post.
8 consumer affairs authority act, no.9 of 2003 (6) where any manufacturer or trader fails or refuses to comply with an order made under subsection (4) of this section, such manufacturer or trader shall be guilty of an offence under this act, and the sum of money due on the order as compensation or refund may, on application being made in that behalf by the authority to the magistrate’s court having jurisdiction over the place of business or residence of such manufacturer or trader as the case may be, be recovered in like manner as a fine imposed by such court, notwithstanding that such sum may exceed the amount of a fine which that court may, in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction, impose.
agreement to 14.
(1) the authority may enter into such written provide for agreements as it may deem necessary, with any manufacturer maximum price or trader or with any association of manufacturers or traders &c. of goods.
to provide for— (a) the maximum price above which any goods shall not be sold; (b) the standards and specifications of any goods manufactured, sold or offered for sale ; (c) any other conditions as to the manufacture, import, supply, storage, distribution, transportation, marketing, labelling or sale of any goods.
(2) every written agreement entered into under subsection (1) between the authority and any manufacturer or trader or with any association of manufacturers or traders, shall be binding on every authorised distributor of such manufacturer or trader and every member of such association, as though he was a party to such agreement and whether or not he was a member at the time of entering into the agreement.
(3) every manufacturer or trader or any authorised distributor of such manufacturer or trader or any association of manufacturers or traders or any member thereof, who contravenes any provision of any agreement entered into with the authority under subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offence under this act.