58 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(e) the sums from the recovery of compensation paid
to depositors from and out of the assets of a member
institution during the winding up proceedings
instituted against such institution;
(f) such sums as may be appropriated out of the
abandoned property or dormant deposits of member
institutions, as the case may be, which have been
transferred to the Central Bank under the Banking
Act;
(g) the moneys received as additional premia and
penalties paid by the member institutions under
this Part of this Act;
(h) the borrowings from the Government or any
international financial institution, as may be
approved by the Central Bank; and
(i) any other receipt from any other sources of income
as may be approved by the Central Bank.
(2) The Deposit Insurance Fund shall be utilized to make
payments in respect of –
(a) compensation to depositors of insured deposits of
member institutions;
(b) abandoned property or dormant deposits of member
institutions lying to the credit of the Deposit
Insurance Fund;
(c) repaying of any borrowings obtained from the
Government or any international financial
institution; and
(d) such operating expenses of the Scheme as may be
determined by the Central Bank.
(3) The Central Bank may require the Scheme to provide
financing to effectively facilitate the resolution of a licensed
bank through the transfer of assets and liabilities to a
transferee or bridge bank, by way of paying any difference
between such assets and liabilities transferred, or by issuing
guarantee or providing indemnities for losses related to the
transferred assets and liabilities:
Banking (Special Provisions) 59
Act, No. 17 of 2023
Provided that, the total amount of financing provided
under this subsection shall not exceed the amount of total
compensation to be paid to the depositors of such bank under
section 44, and such financing shall be subject to a
confirmation by the Central Bank that, with the transfer of
assets and liabilities, insured deposits shall be owed by a
viable bank:
Provided further, that the holders of all classes of share
capital and subordinated debt holders shall have absorbed,
or will absorb, the losses.
(4) (a) The Central Bank shall have the right to recover
from the licensed bank subject to resolution, the total amount
of financing provided by the Scheme to such bank under
subsection (3).
(b) The amount to be recovered from the licensed bank to
the Scheme under this subsection shall rank, pari passu with
the insured deposits and claims of the Deposit Insurance
Fund arising from subrogation of rights of insured depositors
under section 45.
52. All moneys lying to the credit of the Deposit Insurance Investment of
Fund, shall be invested by the Central Bank in Treasury the moneys of
the Deposit
Bills, Treasury Bonds, any other marketable securities,
Insurance Fund
having regard to the safety, liquidity and return of such
investments in accordance with the policies and guidelines
issued by the Central Bank, from time to time, relating to the
investment of the moneys of the Deposit Insurance Fund.
53. If, at any time, the liquid funds available in the Deposit Transfer of
Insurance Fund are considered insufficient to meet the funds from the
Central Bank to
payout requirements of the Scheme, the Central Bank may
the Deposit
extend a liquidity line to the Deposit Insurance Fund against
Insurance Fund
existing collateral in the Deposit Insurance Fund’s portfolio
or against a guarantee issued by the Ministry of Finance on
such terms and conditions, and for such period, as it may
consider necessary.
60 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
Financial 54. (1) The financial statements of the Deposit Insurance
statements of the Fund shall be prepared in accordance with the applicable
Deposit
accounting standards. The accounts of the Deposit Insurance
Insurance Fund
Fund shall be maintained in such form and manner as may
be determined by the Central Bank, from time to time. Such
financial statements shall be maintained separately and shall
not be considered as part of the financial statements of the
Central Bank.
(2) The Central Bank shall be responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements of the Deposit
Insurance Fund within three months from the end of each
financial year and such financial statements shall be audited
by the Auditor-General.
(3) The Central Bank shall publish the audited financial
statements of the Deposit Insurance Fund within four months
from the end of the financial year at least once in three
Sinhala, Tamil and English daily newspapers circulating in
Sri Lanka and in such other manner as may be determined
by the Central Bank.
Member 55. (1) Each member institution shall pay to the Deposit
institutions to Insurance Fund a premium calculated on the total amount of
pay a premium
eligible deposits for such periods, at such rate, at such times
to the Deposit
and in such manner as may be determined, from time to time,
Insurance Fund
by the Central Bank.
(2) Where any member institution makes any default in
the payments of premium due under subsection (1), such
member institution shall be liable to pay to the Central Bank,
a penalty for the period of such default, at such rate as may
be determined by the Central Bank.
(3) In exceptional circumstances, the Central Bank shall
have the authority to require the member institutions to pay
such additional premium to the Deposit Insurance Fund
within such period, as may be specified by the Central Bank.
Banking (Special Provisions) 61
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(4) In the event any member institution fails to pay the
additional premium referred to in subsection (3) within the
period specified, the Central Bank may, on a case-by-case
basis-
(a) having regard to the reasons explained by such
institution, grant additional time for such member
institution to pay such additional premium; or
(b) impose on such member institution a late payment
fee on the defaulted premium at such rate, as may
be determined by the Central Bank.
(5) No person other than a member institution, shall
represent to the general public that such person is a member
of the Scheme and its deposit liabilities are insured under
this Act.
(6) Any person who contravenes the provisions of
subsection (5) commits an offence and shall, on conviction,
be liable to a fine not exceeding ten million rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both
such fine and imprisonment, and shall, in addition, be liable
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees for each day
during which such contravention continues.
56. For the purposes of this Part of this Act, the Head of Examination
and supervision
the Department established under section 4 or any other
of member
officer authorized by the Central Bank shall have the power institutions
to examine and supervise the activities of any member
institution.
62 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
Application of 57. (1) The Central Bank may, from time to time, by Order,
certain
declare that the provisions of Part I and Part II of this Act
provisions of the
Act to non-bank relating to resolution of licensed banks shall apply to any
financial class or category of non-bank financial institutions licensed
institutions
or appointed, and regulated and supervised by the Central
Bank (hereinafter referred to as a "non-bank financial
institution"), where the Central Bank is satisfied that it is
necessary to-
(a) promote monetary and financial system stability;
or
(b) protect the interests of the public in respect of the
business or activities carried on by such class or
category of non-bank financial institutions.
(2) Where an Order is made under this section by the
Central Bank, any reference made in this Act to the Director
of Bank Supervision shall, where appropriate, be deemed to
have been made to the Director, the Department of
Supervision of Non-bank Financial Institutions of the
Central Bank.
PART IV
FINANCIAL SECTOR CRISIS MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Financial Sector 58. (1) There shall be established a committee called the
Crisis
Financial Sector Crisis Management Committee for the
Management
Committee purpose of effectively managing and minimizing the impact
of financial crises which are systemic in nature.
(2) The Financial Sector Crisis Management Committee
shall consist of the following members: -
Banking (Special Provisions) 63
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(a) the Governor of the Central Bank, who shall be the
Chairperson of the Financial Sector Crisis
Management Committee;
(b) the Secretary to the Treasury who shall be the
Deputy Chairperson of the Financial Sector Crisis
Management Committee;
(c) an appointed member of the Governing Board of
the Central Bank with expertise on financial sector;
(d) the Deputy Governor of the Central Bank in charge
of financial system stability; and
(e) the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury in charge of
fiscal operations.
59. (1) The Financial Sector Crisis Management Committee Duties and
shall, for the purpose of operationalization of the Financial functions of the
Financial Sector
Sector Crisis Management Committee, prepare and approve
Crisis
procedures, including procedures for - Management
Committee
(a) identifying crisis times;
(b) determining the powers, duties and functions of
the Financial Sector Crisis Management Committee
on crisis preparedness and management;
(c) the appointment of members to the Technical
Committee on Financial Sector Crisis Management
appointed under section 60;
(d) determining the duties and functions of the
Technical Committee on Financial Sector Crisis
Management during crisis and non-crisis times; and
64 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(e) determining the duties and functions of the
Secretariat.
(2) During non-crisis times, it shall be lawful for the
Financial Sector Crisis Management Committee to take
decisions on an ongoing basis, aimed at strengthening its
crisis management powers, expertise, and resources to
strengthen the preparedness and resilience to avoid, control,
or manage the risk of future crises, which may cause
instability of the financial system.
(3) During crisis times, it shall be lawful for the Financial
Sector Crisis Management Committee to approve, and
coordinate the overall crisis management strategy, in
consultation with the other authorities of the financial sector,
and take decisions to manage, and control such crises,
without prejudice to the powers, duties, functions, and
independence of such authorities.
The Technical 60. (1) There shall be a technical committee called the
Committee on Technical Committee on Financial Sector Crisis
Financial Sector Management to assist the Financial Sector Crisis
Crisis
Management Committee, which shall operate in crisis and
Management
non-crisis times.
(2) The Technical Committee on Financial Sector Crisis
Management shall consist of such number of members
appointed by the Financial Sector Crisis Management
Committee, representing the Central Bank and the Ministry
of the Minister.
(3) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 59, the
Technical Committee on Financial Sector Crisis
Management shall be chaired by the Deputy Governor of
the Central Bank in charge of financial system stability.
Secretariat of the 61. The Central Bank shall function as the Secretariat of
Committees the Financial Sector Crisis Management Committee and the
Technical Committee on Financial Sector Crisis
Management.
