Banking (Special Provisions) 93
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(10) The dissolution of a company under subsection (8)
shall not affect the liability under this Act or any other written
law of any director, chief executive officer, other officer or
owner of the company, and such liability shall continue and
may be enforced as if the company had not been dissolved.
89. (1) Every person, being a director or an officer of a Offences by
licensed bank subject to winding up, whether present or directors or
officers of the
past, who-
licensed bank
(a) fails to disclose to the liquidator, to the best of his
knowledge and belief, information relating to all
the movable and immovable property of such
licensed bank, including how, to whom and for what
consideration such property or part thereof have
been disposed of, except such property or part as
has been disposed of in the ordinary course of the
business of the licensed bank;
(b) fails to deliver up to the liquidator, or as the
liquidator directs –
(i) all the movable and immovable property of
such licensed bank in the custody of such
director or officer, or under the control of
such director or officer; or
(ii) all the books, records, registers and
documents belonging to such licensed
bank, in the custody of such director or
officer, or under the control of such director
or officer;
(c) within twelve months immediately preceding the
commencement of the winding up of such licensed
bank, or at any time thereafter –
94 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(i) has concealed any part of the property of
the licensed bank to the value of rupees ten
thousand or more, or has concealed any debt
due to, or due from, such licensed bank;
(ii) has fraudulently removed any part of the
property of such licensed bank to the value
of rupees ten thousand or more;
(iii) has concealed, destroyed, mutilated or
falsified, or has been privy to the
concealment, destruction, mutilation or
falsification of, any book, register, record
or document affecting or relating to the
property or affairs of such licensed bank;
(iv) has made or has been privy to the making of
any false entry in any book, register, record,
or document affecting or relating to the
property or affairs of such licensed bank;
(v) has fraudulently parted with, altered, or
made any omission in, or has been privy to
fraudulent parting with, altering or making
any omission in, any book, register, record
or document affecting or relating to the
property or affairs of such licensed bank;
(vi) by any false representation or other fraud,
has obtained any property for, or on behalf
of, the licensed bank on credit which such
licensed bank has not subsequently paid for;
(vii) has obtained on credit, for or on behalf of
such licensed bank, under the false pretense
that the licensed bank is carrying on its
business, any property which such licensed
bank has not subsequently paid for; or
Banking (Special Provisions) 95
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(viii) has pawned, pledged or disposed of any
property of such licensed bank which has
been obtained on credit and has not been
paid for, unless such pawning, pledging or
disposing was in the ordinary course of the
business of the licensed bank;
(d) makes any material omission in any statement
relating to the affairs of such licensed bank;
(e) knowing or having reasons to believe that a false
debt has been proved by any person, fails for a
period of one month to inform the liquidator of
such fact;
(f) prevents the production of any book, register, record
or document affecting or relating to the property or
affairs of such licensed bank;
(g) within twelve months immediately preceding the
commencement of the winding up, or at any time
thereafter, has attempted to account for any part of
the property of such licensed bank by fictitious
losses or expenses; or
(h) within twelve months immediately preceding the
commencement of the winding up or at any time
thereafter, has been found to have made any false
representation or committed or involved in the
commission of any other fraudulent activity for the
purpose of obtaining the consent of the creditors of
the licensed bank or any one of them to an
agreement with reference to the affairs of the
licensed bank or to the winding up,
commits an offence under this Act.
(2) Where any person pawns, pledges or disposes of any
property in circumstances which amount to an offence under
subsection (1), every person who takes in pawns or pledge,
96 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
or otherwise receives the property knowing it to be pawned,
pledged, or disposed of in those circumstances, commits an
offence under this Act.
(3) Every director, officer, employee, or servant of any
licensed bank subject to winding up who destroys, mutilates,
alters, or falsifies any book, register, record, document or
security, or makes or is privy to the making of any false or
fraudulent entry in any book, register, record, document or
account belonging to the licensed bank with intent to defraud
or deceive any person, commits an offence under this Act.
Offences by 90. Where a person convicted of an offence under this
body corporates Act is a body corporate, every person who, at the time of the
commission of the offence was a director, or an officer
performing executive functions, or secretary of the body
corporate, shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless
such director, officer or secretary proves to the satisfaction
of the court that the offence was committed without his
knowledge or such director, officer or secretary exercised all
due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.
Penalties 91. Every person who is found guilty of an offence by
reason of the contravention of, or failure to comply with,
any regulation, rule, order or direction or requirement made
or issued under this Act, shall, on conviction after summary
trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding
five million rupees or to imprisonment of either description
for a term not exceeding three years, or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
Central Bank to 92. Without prejudice to any other provisions of this Act
issue directions or any other written law, the Central Bank may issue
on any aspects
directions to a licensed bank regarding the manner in which
of its resolution
authority any aspect of resolution of such licensed bank shall be
conducted.
Banking (Special Provisions) 97
Act, No. 17 of 2023
93. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires–
Interpretation
"abandoned property" means the property as defined
in Part IX of the Banking Act and dormant
deposits as specified in section 23 of the Finance
Business Act;
"Bank of Ceylon Ordinance" means the Bank of Ceylon
Ordinance (Chapter 397);
"Banking Act" means the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;
"bridge bank" means an institution established by the
Central Bank to take over and continue operations
of certain critical functions and viable operations
or to transfer shares, any one or more of the assets,
liabilities, legal rights and obligations or other
property instruments owned or issued by a licensed
bank subject to resolution, which, in the opinion of
the Central Bank, is having systemic importance or
impact;
"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
established by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka Act,
No. 16 of 2023;
"close-out netting" means a contractual provision,
including a provision in a collateral arrangement,
or, in the absence of any such provision, any
statutory rule, on the basis of which, upon the
occurrence of a predefined event in relation to a
party to the contract, the obligations owed by the
parties to the contract to each other that are covered
by the provision, whether or not they are at that
time due and payable, are automatically or at the
election of one of the parties to be immediately
due, reduced to or replaced by a single net
obligation, whether by way of novation,
98 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
termination, set-off or otherwise, representing the
aggregate value of the combined obligations, which
is thereupon due and payable by one party to the
other;.
"Companies Act" means the Companies Act, No. 07 of
2007;
"court" means the High Court established under Article
154P of the Constitution for a Province, empowered
with civil jurisdiction by Order published in the
Gazette under section 2 of the High Court of the
Provinces (Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of 1996,
within the Province for which such High Court is
established, or where any such High Court vested
with such civil jurisdiction is not established for
any Province, the High Court established for the
Western Province;
"crisis times" means a period of time in which the financial
system is unable to perform its key functions
including intermediation of financial funds,
management of risks, and settling of payments
efficiently, and non-crisis times shall be construed
accordingly;
"critical functions" means activities performed by a
licensed bank for and on behalf of third parties other
than the licensed bank, where the failure to perform
any such activities would lead to a disruption of
banking services which are essential for the
functioning of the real economy or for ensuring
financial system stability, due to the size or the
market share of such licensed bank, external and
internal interconnectedness, complexity or cross-
border activities of such licensed bank;
"critical shared services" means activities performed by a
licensed bank itself or outsourced to be performed
by any third party service provider, where the failure
Banking (Special Provisions) 99
Act, No. 17 of 2023
to perform any such activities would lead to an
inability on the part of the licensed bank to perform
critical functions and, thereby disrupting services
which are essential for the functioning of the real
economy or for ensuring financial system stability;
"extraordinary public financial support" means infusion
of capital for a licensed bank having a systemic
importance or impact, through funds other than the
funds of the Central Bank;
"Finance Business Act" means the Finance Business Act,
No. 42 of 2011;
"financial sector" means a subsector of the economy which
comprises institutions that manage funds on behalf
of customers, either corporate or retail, or provide
financial intermediary services to transfer and
allocate funds in an economy;
"Housing Development Finance Corporation Bank of Sri
Lanka Act" means the Housing Development
Finance Corporation Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No. 7
of 1997;
"insolvency" means a situation where the liabilities of a
licensed bank are higher than the assets of such
licensed bank as reflected in its balance sheet;
"insured deposits" means all eligible deposits, subject to
the maximum compensation payable to a depositor
under section 44;
"insured depositors" means holders of eligible deposits,
subject to the maximum compensation payable to
a depositor under section 44;
“international financial institutions” includes the Asian
Development Bank, the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, the International
Development Association, the International
Monetary Fund or similar institutions;
100 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
"key management personnel" means the employees of a
licensed bank who are primarily responsible for the
overall management and operation of such licensed
bank, including the heads of the functions of credit,
finance, treasury, operations, compliance, audit, risk
management, company secretariat, information
technology, information security and such other
function as may be determined by the Central Bank,
from time to time;
"licensed bank" means a commercial bank or a specialised
bank licensed by the Monetary Board of the Central
Bank under the Banking Act, and includes a branch
of a foreign bank incorporated outside Sri Lanka;
"licensed exchange" means an exchange, licensed under
the provisions of the Securities and Exchange
Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No.19 of 2021;
"Minister" means the Minister assigned the subject of
Finance in terms of Article 44 or 45 of the
Constitution;
"Monetary Board" means the Monetary Board established
by the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422);
"National Savings Bank Act" means the National Savings
Bank Act, No. 30 of 1971;
"netting" means determination of net claims or
obligations after setting-off or adjusting all the
claims or obligations based on or arising from
mutual dealings between the parties to a contract;
"non-bank financial institutions" means finance
companies licensed by the Monetary Board under
the Finance Business Act;
Banking (Special Provisions) 101
Act, No. 17 of 2023
"People’s Bank Act" means the People’s Bank Act, No.
29 of 1961;
"Pradeshiya Sanwardhana Bank Act" means the
Pradeshiya Sanwardhana Bank Act, No. 41 of 2008;
"recovery plan" means a plan which provides for measures
to be taken by a licensed bank in the event of a
deterioration of its financial position prior to the
Central Bank taking resolution action on such
licensed bank;
"Registrar-General of Companies" means the Registrar-
General of Companies or other officer performing
the duty of registration of companies under the
Companies Act;
"resolution" means, restructuring of a licensed bank by
the Central Bank through the exercise of resolution
powers of the Central Bank in order to safeguard
the public interest, including the continuity of the
critical functions of such licensed bank, securing
financial stability and ensuring minimal costs to
taxpayers;
"resolution plan" means a plan designed by the Central
Bank for each licensed bank having systemic
importance or impact, in accordance with the
international standards and best practices available
for resolution of banks;
"State Mortgage and Investment Bank Law" means the
State Mortgage and Investment Bank Law, No. 13
of 1975;
"subordinated debt holder" means a holder of debt having
a claim against the issuer’s assets which are of lower
ranking, or junior to all other obligations of a
licensed bank and is paid after claims of holders of
senior securities are paid;
102 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
"temporary financial assistance" means the financial
assistance to contribute to the funding of the
resolution of a licensed bank, or to a bridge bank
by the Government for a temporary period;
"wind-down" means gradually reducing or closing down
of business; and
"write-down" means reducing the value of an asset to
offset a loss or an expense.
Protection from 94. The officers of the Central Bank and the Administrator
action appointed under section 18, shall not be liable for any
damage, or act or omission done pursuant to and in the course
of the exercise, performance and discharge of the powers,
duties and functions under this Act, unless it has been proved
that such damage, act or omission has been done without
good faith or has constituted intentional wrongful
misconduct or willful default.
Provisions for 95. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and
appeals
(3), any person aggrieved by a decision of the Central Bank
including the decision under subsection (1) of section 13,
any regulation, order, rule, direction, or any determination
issued, request made or requirement imposed by the Central
Bank under this Act, or who apprehends that he would be
affected by any such decision, regulation, order, rule,
direction, determination, request or requirement imposed or
proposed to be taken, as the case may be, shall not be entitled
to a permanent or interim injunction, an enjoining order, a
stay order or any other order having the effect of staying,
restraining, or impeding the Central Bank from giving effect
to such order.
Banking (Special Provisions) 103
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(2) (a) The jurisdiction conferred on the Court of Appeal
by Article 140 of the Constitution shall, in relation to a
decision, regulation, order, rule, direction, determination,
request or requirement referred to in subsection (1), be
exercised by the Supreme Court and not by the Court of
Appeal.
(b) Every application invoking the jurisdiction referred
to in paragraph (a) shall be made within one month of the
date of commission of the act in respect of which or in relation
to which such application is made and the Supreme Court
shall hear and finally dispose of such application within
two months of the filing of such application.
(3) Nothing contained in subsection (1) shall affect the
powers which the Supreme Court may otherwise lawfully
exercise in respect of any application made under Article
126 of the Constitution or in the exercise of the jurisdiction
referred to in subsection (2).
(4) No application under paragraph (b) of subsection (2)
shall be made without giving seven days’ prior notice to the
Central Bank of such application.
96. (1) In the event of any inconsistency between the This Act to
provisions of this Act and any other written law for the time prevail over
other written
being in force, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.
laws
(2) Nothing contained in the provisions of the Bank of
Ceylon Ordinance, the People’s Bank Act, the National
Savings Bank Act, the State Mortgage and Investment Bank
Act, the Housing Development Finance Corporation Bank
of Sri lanka Act, the Pradeshiya Sanwardhana Bank Act or
any other Statute under which a state-owned commercial
bank or a specialised bank will be established, shall be
construed as a waiver or restriction of the resolution authority
of the Central Bank under this Act.
104 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
Savings 97. (1) The Sri Lanka Deposit Insurance and Liquidity
Support Scheme established by the Monetary Board by
virtue of the regulations issued under the Monetary Law Act
and subsisting on the day immediately preceding the
appointed date shall, with effect from the appointed date, be
deemed to be the Deposit Insurance Scheme of the Central
Bank under this Act.
(2) The Sri Lanka Deposit Insurance and Liquidity
Support Fund established by the Monetary Board by virtue
of the regulations issued under the Monetary Law Act and
subsisting on the day immediately preceding the appointed
date shall, with effect from the appointed date, be deemed to
be the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Central Bank under
this Act.
(3) The amount lying to the credit of the Sri Lanka Deposit
Insurance and Liquidity Support Fund established by the
Monetary Board by virtue of the regulations issued under
the Monetary Law Act and subsisting on the day immediately
preceding the appointed date shall, with effect from the
appointed date, be deemed to be the amount lying to the
credit of the Deposit Insurance Fund under this Act.
(4) All rights, obligations, assets, properties, liabilities,
powers, privileges and authorities attributed to the Sri Lanka
Deposit Insurance and Liquidity Support Scheme established
by the Monetary Board by virtue of the regulations issued
under the Monetary Law Act, and interests arising in or out
of such rights, assets, properties and such liabilities of the
said Scheme and subsisting on the day immediately
preceding the appointed date, shall, with effect from the
appointed date, be deemed to be rights, obligations, assets,
properties, liabilities, powers, privileges, authorities and
interests of the Deposit Insurance Scheme under this Act.
Banking (Special Provisions) 105
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(5) (a) all premia or additional premia collected from
member institutions;
(b) all penalties imposed on member institutions;
(c) all payments of compensation paid and to be
paid to depositors of member institutions
whose licences have been cancelled by the
Monetary Board;
(d) all the secured loans or advances granted to
any member institutions and any recovery
thereof, and all collaterals pledged against
such loans or advances, as the case may be;
(e) all the investments made and any return
received thereon;
(f) all or any books, accounts and records relating
or appertaining to, any other property
maintained; and
(g) all or part of the taxes, duties, levies or any
other charges of similar nature paid,
by the Sri Lanka Deposit Insurance and Liquidity Support
Scheme established by the Monetary Board by virtue of the
regulations issued under the Monetary Law Act, subsisting
on the day immediately preceding the appointed date shall,
with effect from the appointed date, be deemed to be premia
or additional premia collected, penalties imposed, payment
of compensation paid or to be paid, secured loans or
advances granted, and collaterals pledged, investments made
and returns received, books, accounts and records
maintained, and taxes, duties, levies or charges paid by the
Deposit Insurance Scheme under this Act.
106 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(6) With effect from the appointed date, every reference
to the Sri Lanka Deposit Insurance and Liquidity Support
Scheme established by the Monetary Board under the
Monetary Law Act in any regulation, notification, contract,
instrument, record, share certificate, document, deed, bond,
agreement, guarantee, power of attorney, grant of legal
representation and other instruments of whatever nature shall
be deemed to be a reference to the Sri Lanka Deposit Insurance
Scheme under this Act to give effect to the provisions thereof.
(7) Any agreement, memorandum of understanding or
contract entered into by the Monetary Board with any other
regulatory, supervisory or state authority, whether in or
outside Sri Lanka, in respect of the exercise of resolution
authority and cross-border cooperation and subsisting on
the day immediately preceding the appointed date shall,
with effect from the appointed date, be deemed to be an
agreement, memorandum of understanding or contract
entered into by the Central Bank under this Act.
(8) Notwithstanding the operation of this Act, any
resolution measure or early intervention measure taken by
the Monetary Board or any other officer of the Central Bank
authorized in that behalf by the Monetary Board under the
Monetary Law Act, the Banking Act or the Finance Business
Act, as the case may be, and continuing on the day
immediately preceding the appointed date shall be deemed
to be a resolution measure or an early intervention measure
taken under this Act and shall be continued under the said
Acts for such period as the Monetary Board may determine.
Sinhala text to 98. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
prevail in case
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala Act shall prevail.
of inconsistency
Banking (Special Provisions) 107
Act, No. 17 of 2023
SCHEDULE
[section 6]
1. Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988.
2. Finance Business Act, No. 42 of 2011.
3. Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007.
4. Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 19 of 2021.
108 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.
