Banking (Special Provisions) 89
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(7) Any funds deposited under subsection (6), which is
not claimed by the owner within a period of ten years after
the date of the final distribution to the depositors or creditors
of the licensed bank under this section, shall be deemed to
be abandoned property under the Banking Act.
(8) After all the disputed claims have been either approved
or rejected by the court and all possible payments on
approved claims have been made, and all amounts that could
not be paid have been deposited under subsection (6), any
remaining net proceeds of the winding up shall be –
(a) distributed among all shareholders of the licensed
bank subject to winding up pro rata to the nominal
value of their respective share holdings, subject
only to preferences among classes of shareholders;
(b) paid to the Government where the licensed bank
subject to winding up is a public corporation; or
(c) paid to a head office of the licensed bank subject to
winding up, incorporated outside Sri Lanka.
87. (1) The winding up proceedings may be commenced Winding up
against a licensed bank incorporated or established outside proceedings
concerning a
Sri Lanka -
licensed bank
incorporated or
established
outside Sri
(a) if such licensed bank wishes to close down its
Lanka
business in Sri Lanka with the prior written approval
of the Central Bank, subject to such terms and
conditions as the Central Bank may specify;
(b) if any of the grounds listed in section 66 applies to
such licensed bank as if it were a separate legal
person; or
90 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(c) on the petition by the Central Bank, if the winding
up proceedings have commenced against the
licensed bank in the country in which such licensed
bank is incorporated or established or where such
licensed bank principally carries on its business.
(2) The provisions of this Part of this Act relating to the
winding up of a licensed bank shall apply to the winding up
of a licensed bank incorporated or established outside
Sri Lanka, as they apply to a licensed bank incorporated in
Sri Lanka.
(3) All assets, liabilities, acts and omissions of the licensed
bank subject to winding up incorporated or established
outside Sri Lanka resulting from, or otherwise relating to,
the business carried out by such licensed bank in Sri Lanka
shall be attributed to that licensed bank when applying the
provisions of this section.
(4) The liquidator shall be authorized to take all actions
with respect to such licensed bank as could be taken, as if
such licensed bank was a licensed bank incorporated in
Sri Lanka.
(5) At the time when the order of the court to commence
winding up proceedings against a licensed bank incorporated
or established outside Sri Lanka is served, such licensed
bank shall cease all its activities carried out in Sri Lanka,
except for permissible activities carried out by it with the
prior written approval of the liquidator.
(6) In the application of the provisions of this Part of this
Act in winding up proceedings against a licensed bank
incorporated or established outside Sri Lanka, only the
provisions of section 83 shall apply to the setting off and
netting of obligations resulting from, or otherwise relating
to, the business of such licensed bank in Sri Lanka.
Banking (Special Provisions) 91
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(7) The liquidator shall take all measures necessary to
ensure that no assets owned by the licensed bank subject to
winding up incorporated or established outside Sri Lanka,
are removed from Sri Lanka until all obligations and
liabilities incurred by such licensed bank, to which the
undertaking given by such licensed bank to the Central Bank
at the time of obtaining the licence to carry on banking
business under the Banking Act, have been met in
accordance with such undertaking.
88. (1) Upon completion of the winding up, the liquidator Termination of
shall prepare and submit to the court for its approval, an winding up
proceedings and
audited statement of accounts and a report of winding up of
revocation of
the licensed bank, together with an opinion of an external
licence
auditor.
(2) The audit referred to in subsection (1) shall be
conducted by an external auditor appointed by the Central
Bank in consultation with the Auditor- General.
(3) The external auditor shall be paid a remuneration out
of the assets of the licensed bank.
(4) The external auditor’s opinion referred to in
subsection (1) shall state-
(a) whether the statement of accounts of the liquidator
is true and fair and has been properly drawn up;
(b) whether the statement of accounts of the liquidator
exhibits a true and correct statement of the dealings
of the liquidator with the assets of the licensed
bank;
(c) where such external auditor has called for any
explanation or information from the liquidator,
whether the explanation or information provided
by the liquidator is satisfactory; and
92 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(d) whether the liquidator has acted in accordance with
the directions given by the Central Bank.
(5) The court may approve the audited statement of
accounts and the report of winding up and direct the
liquidator to deposit the books and records of the licensed
bank and other documents relating to the winding up in a
place as the court may deem appropriate.
(6) Upon the receipt of the approval under subsection
(5), the liquidator shall publish a notice of such approval for
the information of the public at least in three Sinhala, Tamil,
and English daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka.
(7) (a) Upon the publication of the notice of approval
under subsection (6), if such notice relates to a company
registered under the provisions of the Companies Act, the
liquidator shall inform the Registrar-General of Companies
to strike-off the name of the company from the register
maintained by the Registrar-General of Companies under
the provisions of the Companies Act.
(b) Thereupon, the Registrar-General of Companies shall
strike off the name of such company from the register and
publish a notice to that effect in at least three Sinhala, Tamil
and English daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka.
(8) From the date of publication of a notice striking off
the name of a company under subsection (7), the proceedings
of winding up against the licensed bank shall terminate, and
the company shall stand dissolved.
(9) The approval by the court of the audited statement of
accounts and the report of winding up discharges and relieves
the liquidator from any liability in connection with the
winding up of the licensed bank.
