Banking (Special Provisions) 21
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(4) The payments to be made to the valuer under
subsections (1) and (2) shall be borne by the licensed bank
in accordance with such terms and conditions as may be
determined by the Central Bank.
(5) The Central Bank shall have the authority to appoint
and publish a list of professional valuers for the purposes of
this section.
(6) The Central Bank may issue directions, from time to
time, for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of
this section.
17. (1) Where the Central Bank has, in the interests of the Order staying
depositors of a licensed bank, prohibited such licensed bank court
from carrying on all or part of its business for the purposes of proceedings
against the
implementing resolution measures under this Act, an officer
licensed bank
authorized in that behalf by the Central Bank may make an
application to the court for an order to prevent the
continuance of any proceedings of a civil nature against the
licensed bank with respect to any of its businesses.
(2) The court may, upon hearing ex parte, an application
made under subsection (1), make an order staying for a period
not exceeding three months the continuance of any
proceedings of a civil nature against the licensed bank with
respect to any of its businesses.
(3) Where a court makes an order under subsection (2),
the Central Bank shall, as soon as practicable, publish a
notice of such order in the Gazette and at least in three
Sinhala, Tamil and English daily newspapers circulating in
Sri Lanka.
PART II
RESOLUTION MEASURES
18. (1) The Central Bank may, for the purpose of Appointment of
resolution of a licensed bank, by Order published in the an Administrator
Gazette and at least in three Sinhala, Tamil and English
22 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka, appoint a fit and
proper person as provided for in subsection (2), as the
Administrator to such licensed bank.
(2) In determining whether a person is a fit and proper
person to be appointed as the Administrator under
subsection (1), the criteria used to determine the fitness and
propriety of directors of a licensed bank under any law for
the time being in force shall mutatis mutandis apply to such
person.
(3) The Administrator shall be an independent person
who shall not have any interest, direct or indirect, financial
or otherwise, in the affairs of the licensed bank subject to
resolution. Any person appointed as the Administrator of a
licensed bank under this Part of this Act, who acquires any
interest, direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, in the
affairs of such bank after such appointment, shall forthwith
inform such fact to the Central Bank and immediately
thereafter cease to act as the Administrator.
(4) An Administrator shall be appointed for a term of six
months from the date of appointment. Such term may be
extended, from time to time, for further periods of six months
at a time by the Central Bank, if required to do so, by an
Order published in the Gazette and at least in three Sinhala,
Tamil and English daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka.
(5) The Order of the Central Bank appointing an
Administrator or extending the term of an Administrator
shall be notified to the licensed bank in writing, specifying
the reasons for such appointment or extending the term, as
the case may be.
(6) Where an Administrator becomes subject to any
disqualification pursuant to the provisions of subsection (2)
or (3), the Central Bank shall appoint any other person as
the Administrator, having regard to the provisions of
subsection (2).
Banking (Special Provisions) 23
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(7) Subject to the provisions of subsection (9), an
Administrator shall be paid such remuneration as may be
determined by the Central Bank.
(8) The Administrator shall be deemed to be a public
servant within the meaning and for the purposes of Part IX of
the Penal Code (Chapter 19), and where the Administrator is
a body corporate or a firm, its directors or managing partners,
as the case may be, shall be considered as public servants for
such purposes.
(9) All costs incurred by the Central Bank on account of
the Administratorship, including the payment of
remuneration of the Administrator, shall be borne by, and
charged to, the licensed bank subject to resolution, in
accordance with such terms and conditions as may be
determined by the Central Bank. Any cost so payable shall
constitute a debt due to the Central Bank from such licensed
bank, until the same is paid in full to the Central Bank.
19. (1) The Administrator appointed under section 18 Effect of taking
shall assume control of all the assets, rights, business and control by the
affairs of the licensed bank subject to resolution, and carry Administrator
on the business and affairs of that licensed bank in the name
and on behalf of the licensed bank, until the expiry of the
period of time specified in the Order referred to in subsection
(1) or subsection (4) of that section or until such time any
such Order is revoked.
(2) Upon the appointment of an Administrator, it shall be
the duty of all the directors and employees of the licensed
bank subject to resolution, to submit the details of all
property, business and affairs of such licensed bank to the
Administrator and assign the control of such property,
business and affairs to the Administrator.
(3) Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (b)
of subsection (4), the directors and employees of a licensed
bank subject to resolution, shall provide the Administrator
with all such facilities as may be required to carry on the
business and affairs of such licensed bank.
24 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(4) During the period within which an Order made by the
Central Bank in respect of a licensed bank under section 18
is in force-
(a) all the duties and functions of such licensed bank,
its directors, and shareholders under any written
law for the time being in force and the respective
constituent documents of such licensed bank, shall
be vested with the Administrator;
(b) any director, key management personnel or an
employee of such licensed bank shall not, either
directly or indirectly, engage in any activity in
relation to, or for and on behalf of, the licensed
bank, except as may be required or authorized by
the Administrator; and
(c) any remuneration of whatever nature shall not
accrue or be payable to any director, key
management personnel or an employee of such
licensed bank, except with the prior written approval
of the Administrator.
Administrator to 20. The Administrator shall, within thirty days from the
prepare an date of his appointment or such other date as may be specified
inventory of
by the Central Bank, prepare and submit to the Central Bank
assets and
an inventory of all assets and liabilities of the licensed bank
liabilities
under his control.
Administrator to 21. (1) The Administrator shall, not later than sixty days
prepare a report from the date of his appointment, prepare and submit to the
on the viable
Central Bank, a detailed report on the licensed bank under
resolution
options his control containing his recommendations as to the most
viable resolution options to be implemented in respect of
such licensed bank.
(2) The Central Bank may, having considered the report
and the recommendations made by the Administrator under
subsection (1), approve or issue one or more directions to
Banking (Special Provisions) 25
Act, No. 17 of 2023
the Administrator, the licensed bank, directors or key
management personnel, as the case may be, as to the most
viable resolution option to be implemented.
(3) The Administrator may, in the report referred to in
subsection (1), recommend that the licensed bank under the
control of such Administrator -
(a) be sold as a going concern;
(b) be resolved through transfer of selected assets and
liabilities, or the establishment of a bridge bank
under section 30;
(c) be resolved through any other resolution power as
may be determined by the Central Bank considering
the financial position and risk profile of such
licensed bank; or
(d) be wound up.
(4) The Administrator shall prepare and submit to the
Central Bank such regular reports as may be specified by the
Central Bank in the Order referred to in section 18 on the
financial conditions of the licensed bank subject to
resolution, and information relating to the exercise,
performance and discharge of the powers, duties and
functions of the Administrator in the implementation of the
resolution measures.
(5) The Administrator shall be responsible for the
organization and maintenance of files, information and
documents of the licensed bank subject to resolution, and
shall maintain a register containing information relating to
all decisions or actions taken on such licensed bank during
the period of his administratorship.
26 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
Termination of 22. (1) An Administrator appointed for the purpose of
administratorship resolution of a licensed bank shall cease to function as such
Administrator in the following situations, whichever occurs
first: -
(a) on completion of the term specified in the Order
referred to in subsection (1) or (4) of section 18, as
the case may be; or
(b) where the Central Bank determines to terminate
the term of such Administrator.
(2) The Administrator shall, within twenty working days
of the termination of the appointment under subsection (1),
prepare and submit to the Central Bank a final report on
activities of his administratorship.
Capital increase 23. (1) The Central Bank, or the Administrator with the
by existing approval of the Central Bank, may take following actions to
shareholders
increase the capital of the licensed bank subject to resolution
through the issuance of new shares: -
(a) to determine the extent of losses and prepare the
financial statements of such licensed bank covering
the amount of such losses from and out of the profits,
reserves and, if necessary, the capital of such
licensed bank; and
(b) to determine the amount of additional capital
required to be invested in the shares of such licensed
bank in order to comply with all capital requirements
made under the Banking Act and to request in writing,
the existing shareholders of the licensed bank to
subscribe and purchase additional shares, by
submitting binding commitments equal to the full
amount of additional capital needed, or any part
thereof, within the time specified in such request:
Banking (Special Provisions) 27
Act, No. 17 of 2023
Provided however, prior to the request referred
to in this paragraph, the Central Bank may, if it
considers necessary, examine and identify
shareholders who may have acted as shadow
directors and contributed directly or indirectly to
the failure of such licensed bank and shall not allow
such shareholders to participate in the increase of
the capital under this section:
Provided further, if shareholders subscribe or
purchase additional shares under this section, such
shareholders may be exempted from the application
of directions issued by the Monetary Board under
the Banking Act on share ownership limits of
licensed banks for a period as may be determined
by the Central Bank.
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, or the articles of Association or any other
constituent document of the licensed bank, the existing
shareholders of a licensed bank subject to resolution shall
have no pre-emptive or any other rights to purchase
additional shares issued except as provided for in
subsection (1).
(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1), the Central
Bank shall have the power to recognize losses to be allocated
to shareholders and subordinated debt holders in the
performance of its duties under this section.
24. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 23 Recapitalization
and for the purposes of recapitalization of a licensed bank by new
shareholders
by new shareholders, the Central Bank-
(a) shall, if not already determined in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of
section 23, determine the extent of losses and
prepare the financial statements of such licensed
bank covering the amount of such losses from and
28 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
out of the profits, reserves and, if necessary, the
capital and subordinated debt and any other
instrument issued for the purpose of loss absorbency
of such licensed bank;
(b) may cause revaluation of the stated capital to reflect
losses, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
any other written law;
(c) may determine the amount and type of funding
needed to bring such licensed bank into compliance
with all capital requirements made under this Act;
(d) may cause such licensed bank to issue additional
capital in any form as may be determined by the
Central Bank in order to comply with the capital
requirements applicable for licensed banks imposed
by the law for the time being in force.
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, the Central Bank may, in relation to regulation
of the securities market and other disclosures to be made by
issuers of securities, cause such licensed bank to issue shares
under the provisions of this section.
(3) The Central Bank shall have the power to recognize
losses to be allocated to shareholders and subordinated debt
holders in the performance of its duties under this section.
Transfer of 25. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
shares and other written law, the Central Bank may, in whole or part,
effecting a
transfer the shares of, any licensed bank subject to resolution
merger
to any other financial institution or effect a merger of such
licensed bank with any other financial institution.
For the purposes of this section, “financial institution”
means a bank licensed under the Banking Act or a finance
company licensed under the Finance Business Act or any
other institution as may be specified by the Central Bank.
Banking (Special Provisions) 29
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1) of section
5, the Central Bank shall ensure that at the time of transferring
shares or effecting a merger under subsection (1), transferee
of such shares is solvent, and complies with applicable
requirements under the Banking Act or any regulation,
direction, determination or Order made thereunder, including
fitness and propriety of the shareholders, directors and key
management personnel who shall have sufficient expertise,
capacity and resources to effectively hold the shares so
transferred and to achieve the objectives of resolution.
(3) The transfer of shares or effect of a merger under
subsection (1) shall be conducted by the Central Bank based
on a prudent and realistic valuation of the assets and
liabilities of such licensed bank, carried out by an
independent professional valuer possessing such
qualifications and experience referred to in subsection (1)
of section 16.
(4) The Central Bank may, by way of directions issued,
from time to time, specify the procedure for transferring of
shares under subsection (1).
(5) The Central Bank shall have the power to recognize
losses to be allocated to shareholders and subordinated debt
holders in the performance of its duties under this section.
26. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (5), the Transfer of
Central Bank may, after giving a prior notification to the selected assets
and liabilities to
licensed bank subject to resolution (in this Part of this Act
a third party
referred to as the “transferor bank”), transfer all or part of the
assets or liabilities, or both such assets and liabilities of
such transferor bank prevailing as at a specific date (in this
Part of this Act referred to as the “relevant date”), to any
third party (in this Part of this Act referred as the “transferee”):
Provided however, where such liabilities or part thereof
consist of deposit liabilities, such deposit liabilities shall
not be transferred to any entity which is not permitted by
law to accept deposits.
30 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(2) The transferee referred to in subsection (1) shall be
solvent, and shall comply with applicable requirements under
the Banking Act or any regulation, direction, determination,
or Order made or issued thereunder, including the requirements
relating to the suitability of qualifying shareholders, directors
and key management personnel, and shall have sufficient
expertise, capacity and resources to effectively hold the assets
or liabilities or both such assets and liabilities so transferred
to achieve the objectives of resolution.
(3) The transfer of assets and liabilities under subsection
(1) shall be conducted by the Central Bank based on a
prudent and realistic valuation of the selected assets and
liabilities of such licensed bank, carried out by an
independent professional valuer possessing such
qualifications and experience referred to in subsection (1)
of section 16.
(4) The Central Bank may, by way of directions issued
from time to time, specify the criteria for the selection of
assets and liabilities to be transferred under subsection (1),
having regard to the interests of depositors, creditors, and
shareholders of such licensed bank.
(5) For the purpose of subsection (1), “assets and liabilities
of a transferor bank” includes,-
(a) all or part of the immovable and movable property
owned by the transferor bank on the day
immediately preceding the relevant date (including
loans, cash balances, reserve funds, investments and
deposits);
(b) all or part of the rights, powers, privileges,
authorities, and interests arising in, or out of, any
property, movable or immovable, owned by the
transferor bank on the day immediately preceding
the relevant date;
Banking (Special Provisions) 31
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(c) any legal rights or obligations of the transferor bank
subsisting on the day immediately preceding the
relevant date;
(d) subject to the provisions of paragraph (e) of section
28, all or part of the liabilities including legal rights
and obligations of the transferor bank subsisting
on the day immediately preceding the relevant date;
and
(e) all books, accounts and documents relating, or
appertaining, to such transferor bank in Sri Lanka.
(6) The transferee referred to in subsection (1) shall-
(a) not be controlled, directly or indirectly, by related
parties of the transferor bank;
(b) only be liable to the shareholders or other creditors
of the transferor bank for those liabilities expressly
transferred, or in accordance with any other terms
or conditions expressly agreed to by the transferee,
to the exclusion of any other responsibilities
including liabilities related to taxes and liabilities
related to the labour;
(c) be responsible for compensating the Central Bank
or the Deposit Insurance Scheme established under
section 39 for any losses caused due to the
transferee’s failure to comply with the terms and
conditions of the transfer of assets and liabilities in
resolution.
27. A transfer of assets and liabilities under section 26 Requirements to
shall not be made by the Central Bank unless – fulfill for the
transfer of assets
and liabilities
(a) the Central Bank is satisfied that the transferee is
solvent and complies with applicable regulatory
requirements, and capable of carrying out in a
32 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
competent manner the business of the transferor
bank proposed to be transferred, and meeting
liabilities of the transferor bank to its depositors
and creditors pertaining or relating to the business
proposed to be transferred;
(b) the transferee agrees in writing to comply with such
terms and conditions as may be specified by the
Central Bank relating to the manner in which-
(i) any existing assets of the transferor bank
pertaining or relating to the business
proposed to be transferred, are to be used and
any existing liabilities of the transferor bank
pertaining or relating to the business
proposed to be transferred are to be met; and
(ii) any payments due to the Government from
the transferor bank are to be made; and
(c) the transferee agrees to comply with such other
directions as the Central Bank may, from time to
time, issue to such transferee under this Act.
Effect of the 28. Unless the Central Bank otherwise decides, where
transfer of assets the assets and liabilities of the transferor bank have been
and liabilities transferred to a transferee under section 26, with effect from
the relevant date-
(a) the transferee shall have the control and possession
of the transferred assets and liabilities of the
transferor bank:
Provided however, upon a request made by
the transferee, the Central Bank may transfer any
assets or liabilities back to the transferor bank,
within a period as may be specified at the time of
such transfer, where such assets or liabilities do not
meet the criteria applicable for the transfer:
Banking (Special Provisions) 33
Act, No. 17 of 2023
Provided further, that the shareholders,
depositors and creditors whose interests and rights
remain in the transferor bank, shall have no rights
or claims in respect of the assets and liabilities
transferred to the transferee;
(b) the licence issued by the Monetary Board under
the relevant laws to the transferor bank to carry on
business, shall be modified or cancelled, as the case
may be, to the extent as is necessary to enable the
transferor bank to carry on any remaining part of its
business which has not been transferred to the
transferee;
(c) all contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements, powers of
attorney, grants of legal representation and other
instruments of whatever nature pertaining, or
relating to the transferred assets and liabilities of
the transferor bank and subsisting, or having effect
on the day immediately preceding the relevant date,
and to which the transferor bank is a party or which
are in favour of the transferor bank, shall, with effect
from the relevant date, be deemed to be contracts,
deeds, bonds, agreements, powers of attorney, grants
of legal representation or other instruments
entered into or granted, as the case may be, by the
transferee;
(d) all actions and proceedings of whatever nature
instituted by or against the transferor bank
pertaining or relating to the transferred assets and
liabilities and pending on the day immediately
preceding the relevant date, shall, with effect from
the relevant date, be deemed to be actions and
proceedings instituted by or against the transferee,
and may be continued and disposed of accordingly;
(e) all such officers and other employees of the
transferor bank as are connected with such part of
34 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
the business of the transferor bank as was transferred
to the transferee, or all the officers and other
employees of the transferor bank, where the entirety
of the business of the transferor bank is transferred
to the transferee, as the case may be, who are in
employment in the transferor bank on the day
immediately preceding the relevant date and who
are not offered employment by the transferee, shall
be entitled to the payment of compensation:
Provided however, where any officer or other
employee of the transferor bank is entitled to a
payment of compensation, the transferee shall
determine the amount of compensation that shall
be paid to such officer or employee in consultation
with the Commissioner-General of Labour.Such
determination shall not affect the right of such
officer or employee to claim any other compensation
under any other written law.
Extent of the 29. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
liability of the Act or any other written law, where the foreign currency
transferee in
deposits of the transferor bank is not made available to the
respect of
transferee, the liability of the transferee to meet the demands
foreign currency
depositors of any foreign currency depositors of the transferor bank
shall be limited only in respect of such depositors who agree
to accept the terms and conditions of any scheme for the
grant of relief to such depositors, as may be formulated by
the Central Bank, upon a review of the business of the
transferor bank, and only to the extent as set out in such
scheme:
Provided however, in the event of such foreign currency
deposits being made available to the transferee, or the
transferee recovering such foreign currency deposits or other
assets abroad, of the transferor bank, the Central Bank shall
have the power to give directions to the transferee with regard
to the payment to such foreign currency depositors of the
foreign currency deposits so made available or foreign
Banking (Special Provisions) 35
Act, No. 17 of 2023
currency deposits and other assets so recovered, and the
transferee shall comply with such directions.
30. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any Establishment of
other written law, where the Central Bank, having regard to a bridge bank
the relevant circumstances, is of the opinion that the failure
of a licensed bank subject to resolution under this Act can
have systemic importance or impact, the Central Bank may
decide to establish one or more institutions (in this Act
referred to as “bridge bank”), subject to the terms and
conditions specified in subsection (6) of section 31 and with
the approval of the Minister, for the purpose of-
(a) continuing operations of all or part of the critical
functions and viable operations of such licensed
bank; or
(b) transferring shares, any one or more of the assets,
liabilities, legal rights and obligations or other
property instruments owned or issued by such
licensed bank:
Provided however, the amount of liabilities transferred
to a bridge bank shall not, in any manner, exceed the amount
of the transferred assets and other resources provided by the
Deposit Insurance Scheme provided for in Part III of this
Act, or the Government, as the case may be.
(2) The Central Bank shall publish the decision taken
under subsection (1) in the Gazette and at least in three
Sinhala, Tamil and English daily newspapers circulating in
Sri Lanka, within five days from the date of establishment of
the bridge bank.
(3) The Central Bank shall issue a licence to the bridge
bank to carry on the banking business in Sri Lanka subject
to such terms and conditions as the Central Bank may
consider necessary.
36 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(4) The Central Bank shall ensure that the bridge bank is
established in an expeditious manner, and the period of such
establishment shall not exceed two days from the decision
of the Central Bank referred to in subsection (1).
(5) The establishment of the bridge bank shall be based
on primary constituent documents of the licensed bank
subject to resolution, and the other relevant documents
pertaining to its establishment shall be submitted to the
relevant authorities within thirty days from the date of the
establishment.
(6) The operations of the bridge bank shall be commenced
from the first working day following the date of issuance of
licence under subsection (3).
Management of 31. (1) The bridge bank established under section 30 shall
the affairs of the be a body corporate and may sue or be sued by its corporate
bridge bank
name.
(2) (a) The management and administration of the affairs
of the bridge bank shall be vested in a governing body of
the bridge bank which shall consist of such number of
members as may be determined by the Central Bank.
(b) The members of the governing body of the bridge
bank shall be fit and proper persons and shall be appointed
by the Central Bank. The Central Bank shall, based on the
criteria referred to in paragraph (f) of subsection (11), assess
the fitness and propriety of persons to be appointed as
members of the governing body prior to their appointment.
(3) The key management personnel of the bridge bank
shall, subject to the provisions of paragraph (f) of subsection
(11), be appointed by the governing body of the bridge bank,
subject to the approval of the Central Bank.
(4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, any officer of the Central Bank shall not be
Banking (Special Provisions) 37
Act, No. 17 of 2023
appointed as a member of the governing body or as a key
management personnel of the bridge bank.
(5) The capital of the bridge bank shall be fully provided
by the Government subject to appropriation of necessary
funds in terms of any applicable written law. The Government
shall have the right to decide on the issuance of Government
guarantees and Government securities in connection with
the financing of the bridge bank:
Provided however, nothing contained in this section shall
be construed as preventing the Central Bank from extending
emergency liquidity assistance, conventional market
liquidity injecting mechanisms or loans to the bridge bank:
Provided further, provision of capital to a bridge bank by
the Government under this section shall not prevent the
Central Bank from exercising control over such bridge bank.
The Central Bank shall ensure that the bridge bank shall be
subject to standard prudential rules in line with the
international standards and best practices.
(6) The terms and conditions for the establishment and
operation of a bridge bank shall include –
(a) the provision of capital;
(b) operational financing and liquidity support;
(c) any temporary changes to prudential and other
supervisory and regulatory requirements that apply
to the bridge bank, for a period up to six months;
(d) the requirement of setting out governance
framework; and
(e) the board of directors and the management of the
bridge bank.
(7) For the purpose of this section, the Central Bank
shall have the power to -
38 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(a) transfer to the bridge bank, from time to time, shares,
assets, liabilities or other instruments of ownership,
as the case may be, issued by the licensed bank
subject to resolution;
(b) subject to the provisions of subsection (8), reverse
the transfer of all or part of the assets and liabilities
from the bridge bank to the licensed bank subject
to resolution;
(c) transfer shares, assets and liabilities, legal rights
and obligations, from the bridge bank to any other
person subject to an eligibility criteria determined
by the Central Bank by directions, for such purpose;
and
(d) facilitate the closure and orderly winding up of the
bridge bank.
(8) The reversal of transfer of shares, assets and liabilities,
legal rights and obligations and any other instruments of
ownership under subsection (7), to the licensed bank subject
to resolution shall be performed in one of the following
circumstances: -
(a) where the possibility of such reversal is expressly
provided for in the decision to establish a bridge
bank referred to in subsection (1) of section 30;
(b) where the shares, assets and liabilities, legal rights
and obligations and any other instrument of
ownership transferred to the bridge bank from the
licensed bank subject to resolution do not meet the
conditions of such transfer or do not fall into the
categories of shares, assets and liabilities, legal
rights and obligations and any other instruments
of ownership specified in the decision to establish
the bridge bank; or
