Banking (Special Provisions) 39
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(c) where it is necessary to rectify the valuation errors
that took place at the time of transfer of shares,
assets and liabilities, legal rights and obligations
and other instruments of ownership.
(9) The transfer of shares, assets and liabilities, legal rights
and obligations and other instruments of ownership to and
from the bridge bank shall be based on a valuation carried
out by an independent professional valuer possessing such
qualifications and experience referred to in subsection (1)
of section 16.
(10) Any shareholder or creditor of a licensed bank subject
to resolution and other third party whose shares, assets and
liabilities, legal rights and obligations and other instruments
of ownership are not transferred to the bridge bank shall not
have any right over the shares, assets and liabilities, legal
rights and obligations and other instruments of ownership
transferred to the bridge bank, its governing body, or the
Central Bank.
(11) The Central Bank may, from time to time, having
regard to the interests of depositors, creditors and
shareholders, issue to the bridge bank, directions, guidelines,
and operating instructions, as the case may be, specifying-
(a) the manner in which the remaining assets and
liabilities of the licensed bank subject to resolution
need to be liquidated;
(b) the manner in which the operations of the bridge
bank shall be carried out;
(c) the exemptions granted to the bridge bank:
(d) minimum capital and liquidity requirements to be
met by the bridge bank;
40 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(e) principles of corporate governance to be applicable
to the bridge bank;
(f) the criteria applicable for the assessment of fitness
and propriety of the members of the governing body
and the key management personnel of the bridge
bank;
(g) criteria for acceptability of the valuations of assets
and liabilities to be transferred to the bridge bank;
(h) modes of consideration to be passed when
transferring assets and liabilities, legal rights and
obligations and instruments of ownership; or
(i) the manner and the circumstances of reversals of
assets and liabilities and other instruments of
ownership initially transferred to the bridge bank.
Term of a 32. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (3) and
bridge bank (4), the term of the bridge bank shall not exceed a period of
two years from the last date of transfer of shares, assets and
liabilities and instruments of ownership of the licensed bank
subject to resolution.
(2) The Central Bank shall terminate the bridge bank as
soon as practicable, according to its own assessment, having
regard to the objectives of resolution, completion of the
tasks assigned to the bridge bank and such other matters on
its merit, upon the completion of the period of two years
referred to in subsection (1).
(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (4), where the
Central Bank is satisfied that the bridge bank no longer
serves the objectives of resolution, the Central Bank may,
after informing the Minister-
(a) merge the bridge bank with another entity;
Banking (Special Provisions) 41
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(b) sell in whole or part, the assets, rights, and
obligations of the bridge bank to a third party; or
(c) liquidate the assets of the bridge bank and pay its
obligations in full.
(4) The term of the bridge bank may be extended by the
Central Bank for a further period of one year at a time:
Provided however, the term of a bridge bank shall not, in
the aggregate, exceed five years.
(5) (a) All the decisions of the Central Bank under
subsections (2), (3) and (4) shall be based on an assessment
of the circumstances and market conditions that justify such
decisions.
(b) The Central Bank shall submit a report to the Minister
within one month from the date of such decisions. In the
case of an extension granted under subsection (4), the Central
Bank shall also publish a reasoned explanation as to why
such an extension is necessary.
(6) Where the term of the bridge bank is terminated under
subsection (2), the Central Bank shall-
(a) cancel the licence issued to such bridge bank; and
(b) wind up such bridge bank under Part V of this Act.
(7) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3) of section
51, all receipts resulting from the cessation of the operation
of the bridge bank under this section shall be transferred to
the Government.
33. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), the Providing
Government may, having considered the report submitted temporary
by the Central Bank to the Minister in that behalf, provide financial
assistance by the
temporary financial assistance to contribute to the funding
Government
of the resolution of a licensed bank, or to a bridge bank, as
the case may be.
42 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(2) The temporary financial assistance referred to in
subsection (1) shall be provided by the Government only if
the following conditions are satisfied: -
(a) such financial assistance is necessary to avoid a
risk of disturbance to the stability of the financial
system;
(b) alternative funding through Deposit Insurance Fund
established under section 49 as permitted under
subsection (3) of section 51 or private sources has
been depleted or such sources are not sufficient or
available within a reasonable time frame;
(c) losses of the licensed bank are allocated at least to
shareholders and subordinated debt holders; and
(d) the Central Bank is of the opinion that the licensed
bank subject to resolution or the bridge bank will
become viable with the implementation of a
resolution or restructuring plan.
(3) The temporary financial assistance under this section
may be provided by the Government to –
(a) extend financial assistance for a licensed bank
subject to resolution or for a bridge bank established
under section 30;
(b) pay compensation to shareholders and creditors
under section 36; or
(c) take such other measure as is incidental or
connected to the purposes referred to in paragraph
(a) or (b).
(4) (a) Where the Government becomes the holder of a
controlling interest in a licensed bank subject to resolution
or the bridge bank, as a result of providing temporary financial
Banking (Special Provisions) 43
Act, No. 17 of 2023
assistance under this section, such licensed bank or the bridge
bank shall be managed on a commercial and professional
basis and shall be subject to enhanced supervision by the
Central Bank.
(b) The licensed bank or the bridge bank, as the case may
be, referred to in paragraph (a) shall develop a plan, to the
satisfaction of the Central Bank, for its exit from Government
control, within a reasonable timeframe. The Minister shall,
on the recommendation of the Central Bank, prescribe the
procedures for the utilization of exit options in a fair and
transparent manner, having regard to the timing, and market
conditions and confidentiality requirements.
(5) Any temporary financial assistance provided under
this section and related costs and net of expected recoveries,
may be recovered from all banks under subsection (4) of
section 15.
(6) The Minister may, on the recommendation of the
Central Bank, prescribe the rules for the provision of
temporary financial assistance and the recoupment of such
funds under this Act.
34. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of section Capitalization of
30, where the Government is of the opinion that the failure a licensed bank
having systemic
of a licensed bank can have systemic importance or impact,
impact
it shall have the authority to resolve such licensed bank.
(2) In resolving a licensed bank under subsection (1), the
Government may infuse capital for such licensed bank
through –
(a) participation of the Government in the
recapitalization of such licensed bank; or
(b) taking over such licensed bank into temporary
public ownership.
44 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(3) The conditions set out in subsection (2) of section 33
shall mutatis mutandis apply to a licensed bank subject to
resolution under this section.
Central Bank to 35. (1) The Central Bank may, where appropriate, notify
notify the the Minister and other relevant authorities including any
exercising of
foreign supervisory or resolution authorities, of the exercise
resolution
powers by the Central Bank of its resolution powers under this Act.
(2) The Central Bank shall publish a notice in three
Sinhala, Tamil and English daily newspapers circulating in
Sri Lanka with respect to the exercise of resolution powers
on any licensed bank under this Part of this Act.
Compensating 36. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
shareholders and other written law, where the Central Bank, in the exercise,
creditors
performance or discharge of its powers, duties or functions
under this Act, considers that it is necessary-
(a) to mitigate any impact of the failure of a licensed
bank in the economy and avoid contagion risk of
such failure across the financial system; or
(b) to maximize the value for the benefit of all
depositors and creditors of a licensed bank,
it shall be lawful for the Central Bank to apply different
treatments to a class or classes of persons among the creditors
of a licensed bank subject to resolution having considered
the impact of losses to be attributable to such class or classes
of creditors as a whole, the interests of the depositors and
creditors of such licensed bank, and the financial system
stability of Sri Lanka.
(2) (a) A shareholder or creditor who incurs higher losses
than what he would have incurred if the licensed bank subject
to resolution had been liquidated through winding up, may
be compensated for the difference.
Banking (Special Provisions) 45
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(b) The difference to be compensated under paragraph
(a) shall be determined based on a valuation, carried out
after completion of the resolution, by an independent
professional valuer possessing such qualifications and
experience referred to in subsection (1) of section 16.
(3) The valuation referred to in subsection (2), shall be
carried out on the basis that such licensed bank would be
wound up immediately before the initiation of such
resolution by the Central Bank and shall be based on the
value that could be given at the time of winding up:
Provided however, any value created or preserved in such
licensed bank as a result of any public financial support or
emergency liquidity assistance provided by the Central Bank
or the Government, as the case may be, shall be deducted in
the calculation of difference.
(4) The compensation referred to in subsection (2) may
be provided by the Government through temporary financial
assistance as provided for in section 33.
(5) The Central Bank may give effect to the provisions of
this section by issuing directions, from time to time.
37. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act Central Bank
or any other written law for the time being in force, the and the Ministry
to exchange
Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance shall exchange
information
information in respect of planning, preparation and
implementation of resolution measures related to any
licensed bank which requires funding by the Government
under this Act.
(2) The Minister, Secretary, Director General, any director,
officer or any other person engaged or employed in the
functions or affairs of the Ministry of the Minister shall
maintain strict confidentiality in respect of all information
46 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
exchanged under subsection (1) and shall not reveal any
such information except-
(a) as required by a court of law;
(b) in the performance of their duties under this Act; or
(c) in order to comply with any of the provisions of
this Act or any other written law.
Cross-border 38. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act
cooperation or in any other written law for the time being in force, the
Central Bank shall have authority to enter into agreements,
memoranda of understanding and arrangements for the
coordination, cooperation and the exchange of information
with relevant authorities established outside Sri Lanka,
including supervisory or regulatory authorities of banks in
other jurisdictions outside Sri Lanka:
Provided however, if the Central Bank is of the opinion
that any confidential information, if exchanged with any
such authority cannot be secured due to the unavailability
of duty to preserve confidentiality in such authority, the
Central Bank shall not exchange such information with any
such authority outside Sri Lanka.
(2) The agreements, memoranda of understanding and
arrangements with the relevant authorities outside Sri Lanka
referred to in subsection (1), shall include the following: -
(a) procedures for the timely exchange of information
on matters agreed between the parties including
consultations, prior notifications, regulatory or
supervisory concerns, recovery plans, resolvability
assessments, resolution plans, early intervention
measures and resolution actions;
(b) procedures for the coordination of resolution
measures;
Banking (Special Provisions) 47
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(c) procedures for the recognition and facilitation of
resolution measures taken by foreign regulatory
authorities and the Central Bank;
(d) restrictions on the use of information for purposes
other than those for which the information is shared;
(e) stipulation that the information be treated in a
confidential manner and not be further disclosed
without the express consent of the Central Bank;
and
(f) any other matter which the parties may consider
necessary for the effective implementation of
resolution measures under this Act.
(3) The Central Bank may, on the request of a foreign
resolution authority, make an Order that the effects of a
resolution measure of such foreign authority be fully or
partially applicable in Sri Lanka:
Provided however, the Central Bank shall not make such
Order where the Central Bank is of the opinion that -
(a) in terms of its objective and anticipated results, the
foreign resolution measure is not comparable to
the exercise of resolution powers under this Act;
(b) the relevant laws of the foreign resolution
authority’s jurisdiction do not allow for the
recognition of the Central Bank’s resolution
measures on request;
(c) recognizing a foreign resolution measure would not
contribute to the achievement of resolution
objectives under this Act;
(d) creditors of the licensed bank in Sri Lanka would
not be treated equitably under the foreign resolution
proceedings;
48 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(e) such recognition would have material adverse fiscal
implications in Sri Lanka; or
(f) such recognition would contravene the public
policy of Sri Lanka.
PART III
SRI LANKA DEPOSIT INSURANCE sCHEME
Establishment of 39. The Central Bank shall, in order to uphold the public
a deposit confidence in the financial system and to promote, and
insurance
contribute to, the stability of the financial system in
scheme
Sri Lanka, establish a scheme called Sri Lanka Deposit
Insurance Scheme (hereinafter referred to as the “Scheme”)
under this Act, for the purposes of-
(a) insuring the deposits made by the depositors in an
institution which is a member of the Scheme
(in this Part of this Act referred to as a “member
institution”) in order to compensate such depositors
up to any maximum amount as may be determined
by the Central Bank, from time to time, subject to
subsection (9) of section 44, in the event the licence
issued to such member institution is cancelled by
the Central Bank; and
(b) establishing a system for providing appropriate
financial assistance to facilitate transfer of assets
and liabilities of a member institution as a
resolution measure, subject to safeguards.
Administration 40. (1) The Central Bank shall be responsible for the
and management administration and management of the Scheme and shall
of the Scheme
exercise, perform, and discharge all the powers, duties and
functions conferred or imposed on, or assigned to it under
this Act for the effective implementation of the Scheme.
Banking (Special Provisions) 49
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(2) In relation to the administration and management of
the Scheme under this Act or any other written law, the
Central Bank may-
(a) formulate policies in relation to the general
administration of the Scheme;
(b) set out the organizational arrangements relating to
the exercise, performance and discharge of the
powers, duties and functions in relation to the
Scheme in order to prevent a conflict of interest or
possible conflict of interest between the functions
of the Scheme and other functions of the
Central Bank;
(c) make rules setting out the procedure for repaying
the insured deposits by utilizing the moneys
available in the Fund; and
(d) make any other arrangement which the Central Bank
considers necessary to ensure the effective
administration and management of the Scheme.
(3) The Central Bank may delegate any power, duty and
function relating to the day-to-day administration and
management of the Scheme to any officer of the
Central Bank.
41. (1) The Head of the Department established under Members of the
section 4 or any other officer authorized by the Central Bank Scheme
shall publish a list of all institutions who are members of the
Scheme annually, at least in one Sinhala, Tamil, and English
daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka.
(2) The Central Bank shall, by way of a direction, notify
the member institutions of the membership in the Scheme.
50 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
For the purposes of this Part of this Act, a “member
institution” means, a licensed commercial bank, a licensed
specialized bank within the meaning of the Banking Act or
a licensed finance company within the meaning of the
Finance Business Act or any other institution as the
Central Bank may determine, from time to time, as a member
institution under this Act.
Cessation of 42. (1) A member institution shall cease to be a member
membership in of the Scheme upon the cancellation of the licence issued to
the Scheme such institution to carry on banking business or finance
business by the Central Bank, or the commencement of
winding up, as the case may be.
(2) The Central Bank shall, upon the cancellation of
licence as referred to in subsection (1), give notice to the
public under the Banking Act or the Finance Business Act
that such institution ceases to be a member of the Scheme
upon such cancellation.
Member 43. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), the
institutions to member institutions shall insure all eligible deposits under
insure deposits the Scheme.
under the
Scheme
(2) The eligible deposits to be insured under the
Scheme shall include demand, time and savings deposit
liabilities of member institutions other than the deposit
liabilities specified in subsection (3) and debt instruments
including any promissory notes, hybrid equity and such
other debt instruments as may be determined by the
Central Bank.
(3) The following deposit liabilities shall not be
considered as eligible deposits: -
(a) deposit liabilities to other member institutions;
(b) deposit liabilities maintained individually or
jointly with any other party, by directors and key
Banking (Special Provisions) 51
Act, No. 17 of 2023
management personnel of a member institution,
close relations of such directors and key
management personnel, a subsidiary company or
an associate company of a member institution, and
any concern in which any of the directors and key
management personnel of a member institution or
close relations of such directors and key
management personnel have any interest;
(c) deposit liabilities of former directors or key
management personnel of a member institution
where –
(i) such directors or key management personnel
have been removed from such position on
the direction by the Central Bank due to such
directors or key management personnel being
involved in or connected with any unsound,
improper, dishonest, deceitful or fraudulent
financial practice detrimental to the interests
of the depositors and other creditors of such
member institution, in carrying out business
operations or management of such member
institution;
(ii) such directors or key management personnel
have been determined by the Central Bank,
to be not fit and proper to hold such office in
a member institution under any written law
for the time being in force;
(iii) the Central Bank determines ex mero motu,
upon being satisfied based on the material
available, and after granting such directors
or key management personnel, as the case
may be, an opportunity of being heard, that
such directors or key management personnel
are not entitled to receive any benefit under
the Scheme, due to such directors or key
management personnel engaging in, or
having engaged in, or being involved in, or
52 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
being responsible for, carrying on the business
operations or management of such member
institution through any unsound, improper,
dishonest, deceitful or fraudulent financial
practices detrimental to the interests of its
depositors and other creditors;
(d) deposits falling within the meaning of abandoned
property under the Banking Act and dormant
deposits under the Finance Business Act, as the
case may be, which have been transferred to the
Central Bank, in terms of the directions issued by
the Central Bank, from time to time;
(e) deposits held by any Government institution,
including a Ministry, Department, Provincial
Council or local authority; and
(f) any other deposit liability of a member institution
as may be determined by the Central Bank as not
eligible under the Scheme.
(4) The Central Bank may, from time to time, issue
operating instructions to member institutions regarding the
implementation and operation of the Scheme.
Compensation to 44. (1) Compensation shall be paid to depositors on
depositors insured deposits as per the directions issued by the Central
Bank, from time to time, or as hereinafter provided.
(2) Payment of compensation on insured deposits of a
member institution shall be initiated within thirty days from
the date of cancellation of the licence issued to such member
institution.
(3) A depositor of insured deposits shall be entitled to
receive compensation under subsection (1) in so far as such
depositor submits a duly completed claim for compensation
within six years from the date of the cancellation of the
licence issued to the member institution.
Banking (Special Provisions) 53
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(4) For the purpose of making compensation under
subsection (1), the Deposit Insurance Fund established under
section 49 shall automatically subrogate to the rights of
depositors against such member institution in an amount
equal to the amount of the insured deposits owed by the
member institution, regardless of the date on which such
amounts are actually paid to its insured depositors:
Provided however, the depositors of insured deposits of
member institutions whose licences have been cancelled or
suspended prior to August 6, 2021 shall submit their claims
not later than four years from the date of the cancellation or
suspension of the licences issued to such institutions.
(5) For the purposes of this Part of this Act, a member
institution shall maintain records of all depositors of such
institution with a unique identification number for each such
depositor and submit the details of all depositors to the
Central Bank periodically, in such form and manner as may
be determined by the Central Bank.
(6) In the event a licence issued to a member institution is
cancelled by the Central Bank, such member institution
shall, within fourteen days from the date of such cancellation,
submit a list of depositors of such institution in the form and
manner specified in subsection (5) to the Central Bank for
the purpose of payment of compensation to the depositors
under the Scheme.
(7) The list of depositors referred to in subsection (6)
shall be certified by the respective heads of the supervisory
departments of the Central Bank. For the purpose of
certification of the list of depositors, the respective heads of
the supervisory departments may obtain the service of an
external auditor, if necessary.
(8) The compensation payable in respect of insured
deposits of a member institution shall be computed
aggregating all insured deposit liabilities for each depositor
54 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
inclusive of any interest accrued thereon as at the date of
cancellation of licence of such member institution, and any
interest shall not be paid for the succeeding period.
(9) The maximum amount of compensation payable to a
depositor under subsection (8) shall be determined by the
Central Bank, from time to time, considering the protection
of the interests of the majority of insured depositors under
the Scheme, the soundness of the banking and financial
system and the monies available in the Deposit Insurance
Fund.
(10) When determining the compensation payable under
subsection (8), the Central Bank shall take into consideration
the type of currency of the insured deposits. If such deposits
are in foreign currency, an amount equivalent to such amount
of money in Sri Lanka Rupees determined by the Central
Bank under subsection (9) shall be paid to such depositor.
(11) The payment of compensation shall not in any event
incur a liability of the Central Bank and the Central Bank
shall not be held liable for any liability that exceeds the
total amount of moneys lying to the credit of the Deposit
Insurance Fund.
(12) Where the amount of money lying to the credit of
the Deposit Insurance Fund falls short of its liabilities to
depositors, additional funding may be raised through
borrowings from the Government or from other sources, and
for such purpose, the Scheme and the Ministry of Finance
shall maintain at all times a memorandum of understanding
setting out the terms, conditions and procedures to facilitate
such borrowings.
(13) The Head of the Department established under
section 4 or any officer authorized by the Central Bank may
issue instructions to member institutions relating to the
maintaining of records of depositors or any other matter,
from time to time.
Banking (Special Provisions) 55
Act, No. 17 of 2023
45. (1) Upon the payment of compensation under section Subrogation of
the Scheme to
44, the Scheme shall be subrogated to all the rights of the
the rights of
insured depositors against the member institution whose depositors
licence has been cancelled, to the extent of total insured
deposit value.
(2) The subrogation to the rights of depositors set forth in
this section shall not affect a depositor’s claims against the
member institution for amounts that are not covered by the
Deposit Insurance Fund.
46. The Central Bank may make payments of Compensation
may be paid
compensation to depositors under the Scheme directly or
through another
through any other licensed bank as may be determined by licensed bank
the Central Bank which consents to act as a payment bank.
47. The Central Bank shall, within seven working days Notice of
prior to the date of implementation of the payment of payment of
compensation
compensation under the Scheme, publish a notice on the
implementation of such payment in at least three Sinhala,
Tamil and English daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka,
containing-
(a) the details of the payment bank;
(b) particulars to be submitted by the depositors to
receive compensation;
(c) maximum amount of compensation that shall be
paid per depositor; and
(d) such other instructions to depositors as to how they
shall submit their claims for the payment of
compensation.
56 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
Reporting by 48. Every member institution shall provide to the Central
member Bank or to any officer authorized by the Central Bank, the
institutions
information as may be required by the Central Bank, from
time to time, in such manner as the Central Bank may specify,
from time to time.
Deposit 49. (1) The Central Bank shall, as part of the operation of
Insurance Fund the Scheme, establish a Deposit Insurance Fund, which shall
be managed separately from other assets of the Central Bank
and the assets managed by the Central Bank.
(2) The Central Bank may sue or be sued in the name of
the Deposit Insurance Fund.
Powers, duties 50. (1) The Central Bank shall manage, administer, and
and functions of supervise the affairs of the Deposit Insurance Fund subject
the Central Bank
to the provisions of this Act.
relating to the
Deposit
Insurance Fund (2) In managing, administering and supervising the affairs
of the Deposit Insurance Fund, the Central Bank shall
exercise, perform and discharge the following powers, duties
and functions:-
(a) to formulate policies in relation to the general
administration of the Deposit Insurance Fund and
such other matters relating thereto;
(b) to enter into agreements with any international
financial institution in the name of the Deposit
Insurance Fund to ensure the effective
administration and management of the Deposit
Insurance Fund;
(c) to accept from the Government or any international
financial institution, any grant or aid, or borrowing
in the name of the Deposit Insurance Fund, as it
may consider necessary;
(d) to formulate procedures for repaying insured
deposits by utilizing the moneys available in the
Deposit Insurance Fund;
Banking (Special Provisions) 57
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(e) to make investments and enter into any transaction
or agreement as may be necessary or desirable for
the financial management of the Deposit Insurance
Fund;
(f) to settle or compromise any claim authorized by
the Central Bank by or against the Deposit
Insurance Fund;
(g) to determine the period within which the
compensation shall be paid to depositors under
section 44; or
(h) to do such other things which the Central Bank
considers necessary to ensure the effective
administration and management of the Deposit
Insurance Fund.
51. (1) There shall be credited to the Deposit Insurance Sources of funds
Fund – of the Deposit
Insurance Fund
(a) the monies lying to the credit of the Deposit
Insurance Fund under the Sri Lanka Deposit
Insurance and Liquidity Support Scheme
established under the laws for the time being in
force, as at the appointed date;
(b) the premia and penalties paid by member
institutions;
(c) the investment income and gains derived from the
investments of the moneys in the Deposit Insurance
Fund;
(d) recoveries of secured advances or loans granted to
any member institutions under the Sri Lanka
Deposit Insurance and Liquidity Support Scheme
established under the laws for the time being in
force;
