Banking (Special Provisions) 65
Act, No. 17 of 2023
62. (1) The Financial Sector Crisis Management Meetings of the
Financial Sector
Committee shall hold meetings as and when necessary, but
Crisis
at least once a month when it operates in crisis times and at Management
least once every quarter in non-crisis times. Committee
(2) The Chairperson of the Financial Sector Crisis
Management Committee may call extraordinary meetings
depending on the circumstances and needs.
(3) The quorum for any meeting of the Financial Sector
Crisis Management Committee shall be constituted by the
presence of the Chairperson or the person acting as
Chairperson and the simple majority of the remaining
members.
(4) In the absence of the Chairperson from any meeting,
the Deputy Chairperson shall preside at such meetings. In
the absence of both the Chairperson and the Deputy
Chairperson from any meeting, any other member shall be
elected to preside at such meeting from among the members
present at such meeting.
63. The Chairpersons of the Financial Sector Crisis Committees may
invite public and
Management Committee and the Technical Committee on
private sector
Financial Sector Crisis Management may, as and when stakeholders to
necessary, invite such relevant stakeholders from the public meetings
and private sectors as such Committees may determine, to
attend the meetings of such Committees as observers to
discuss relevant issues depending on the circumstances and
needs.
64. Each member of the Financial Sector Crisis Confidentiality
Management Committee and the Technical Committee on of the
information of
Financial Sector Crisis Management and the officers and Committees
other employees of the Secretariat shall maintain strict
66 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
confidentiality with regard to the information received and
collected by such Committees, including the views
expressed by the members of such Committees in the
performance and discharge of the duties and functions of
such Committees and shall use them solely for the purpose
of the activities of the respective Committees.
PART V
WINDING UP OF LICENSED BANK
Provisions of 65. Unless otherwise provided for in this Part of this Act,
this Part of this in the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the
Act to prevail
provisions of this Part of this Act and the provisions of the
over any other
Banking Act, the Monetary Law Act, the Finance Business
law
Act, the Companies Act, or any other written law relating to
insolvency of companies for the time being in force, the
provisions of this Part of this Act shall prevail.
Winding up of a 66. (1) A licensed bank may be wound up by the Central
licensed bank Bank, in any of the following circumstances: -
(a) where the Central Bank is satisfied that the
resolution measures referred to in Part II of this Act
are not likely to achieve one or more of the
objectives set out in section 8;
(b) the Administrator recommends that the licensed
bank be wound up, under section 21;
(c) where the assets and liabilities of a licensed bank
are partially transferred to a transferee, including a
bridge bank under the provisions of Part II of this
Act; or
(d) the Central Bank, in the process of resolution,
concludes that the prospect of a successful
resolution is unlikely under the provisions of PartII
of this Act.
Banking (Special Provisions) 67
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(2) Where the Central Bank determines that a licensed
bank shall be wound up due to any of the grounds specified
in subsection (1), the Central Bank shall grant such licensed
bank, an opportunity of being heard and take steps to cancel
the licence issued to such licensed bank and commence
proceedings for its winding up in accordance with the
provisions of this Part of this Act.
(3) Upon cancellation of the licence by the Central Bank
under subsection (2), the licensed bank shall forthwith cease
carrying out of its business within and outside Sri Lanka.
67. (1) Where the licence issued to a licensed bank is Application to
cancelled by the Central Bank under subsection (2) of section court for a
winding up
66, the Head of the Department established under section 4
order
may make an application to the court to commence winding
up proceedings against such licensed bank.
(2) An application to the court under subsection (1) shall
be by way of a petition made in accordance with the
provisions of this Part of this Act. Such petition shall be
supported by documentary evidence to prove the grounds
for the winding up.
(3) The court shall, after considering the application made
under subsection (1), fix a date to support the winding up
petition, which shall not exceed two months from the date
of the winding up petition filed under subsection (2).
(4) The Head of the Department established under section
4 shall publish in the Gazette, the date fixed to support the
winding up petition under subsection (3), within a period of
fourteen working days from the date called to fix the date to
support, requiring creditors or any other interested party of
the licensed bank subject to winding up, to notify him in
such form and within such period as may be specified in that
68 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
publication, whether they intervene into the winding up
application filed under subsection (1), as parties (in this Act
referred to as the "intervening parties"). The period of
notification given to intervening parties shall not exceed
fourteen days from the date of such Gazette. Details of the
intervening parties notified under this section shall be
submitted to the court on the date fixed to support the
winding up petition.
(5) No person specified in subsection (4) shall intervene
in the winding up proceedings before the date on which
such petition is supported.
(6) The court may, after considering the application made
under subsection (1), and submissions of the intervening
parties, make an order (in this Act referred to as the "winding
up order") to commence the winding up proceedings against
such licensed bank.
(7) The winding up order shall come into effect from the
date specified in such order.
(8) If the court is of the opinion, after considering the
submissions of the Head of the Department established under
section 4 and the intervening parties that the licensed bank
is not insolvent, it may make order permitting the licensed
bank to resume business, either unconditionally or subject
to such conditions as the court may consider necessary in
the public interest or in the interests of the depositors and
other creditors of the licensed bank.
(9) Upon coming into effect of the winding up order, the
right of any depositor, creditor, or any contracting
counterparty to access or execute their rights, titles and
interests recorded in the books or records of the licensed
bank shall be forthwith suspended.
Banking (Special Provisions) 69
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(10) For the purposes of this Part of this Act, the value of
the assets and liabilities of a licensed bank which is subject
to winding up shall be determined in accordance with the
applicable Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
(11) Every order made by the court under this section
shall be subject to an appeal to the Supreme Court and the
provisions of the High Court of the Provinces (Special
Provisions) Act, No.10 of 1996 relating to an appeal shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply to and in respect of any such appeal.
68. (1) In pursuance to the winding up order, the court Appointment of
shall appoint a person nominated by the Central Bank as the a liquidator
liquidator to act on its behalf for the purposes of winding up
of the operations of the licensed bank.
(2) The Central Bank shall, immediately after the
appointment of the liquidator under subsection (1), give
notice of the winding up order and the appointment of
liquidator under subsection (1), to the licensed bank, and
shall publish such notice in the Gazette and at least in three
Sinhala, Tamil and English daily newspapers circulating in
Sri Lanka.
69. (1) The liquidator appointed under section 68 shall be Powers, duties
the sole legal representative of the licensed bank subject to and functions of
the liquidator
winding up, and shall succeed to all rights and powers of the
shareholders, the Board of Directors, key management
personnel and such other officers of the licensed bank,
including all the powers necessary or expedient to manage,
control, operate, and wind up the licensed bank:
Provided however, the liquidator may request the court to
vest all or part of the assets and liabilities of the licensed
bank subject to winding up in another licensed bank, with
the concurrence of the Central Bank.
70 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(2) The liquidator shall exercise, perform and discharge
the powers, duties and functions relating to winding up under
the direction and supervision of the court and the Central
Bank:
Provided however, the Central Bank shall ensure that any
direction given to the liquidator does not contravene the
directions, orders, judgements and instructions given by the
court during the winding up process.
(3) The liquidator shall, subject to the direction and
supervision of the Central Bank, take charge of the offices,
books, records and other information and assets of the
licensed bank subject to winding up.
(4) A liquidator may, for the purpose of exercising,
performing and discharging the powers, duties and functions
relating to the winding up of the licensed bank, at the
expense of the licensed bank, obtain services of independent
attorneys, accountants, auditors, consultants, valuers, or such
other persons, on such terms and conditions, as may be agreed
with such persons in writing.
(5) The liquidator shall be entitled to an indemnity out of
the property of the licensed bank subject to winding up in
respect of his personal liabilities under this Part of this Act.
Remuneration of 70. (1) The liquidator shall be paid such remuneration as
the liquidator may be specified by the court as a percentage of the value of
the assets of the licensed bank subject to winding up or as
the court may otherwise specify.
(2) The remuneration specified by the court under
subsection (1) and such reasonable and incidental expenses
incurred by the liquidator in the process of winding up of
the licensed bank shall be paid from the existing assets of
such licensed bank.
Banking (Special Provisions) 71
Act, No. 17 of 2023
71. (1) The court shall remove the liquidator, upon an Removal of the
liquidator
application made in that behalf by the Head of the
Department established under section 4, where the
liquidator-
(a) has died or been incapacitated to act as the
liquidator;
(b) has submitted a letter of resignation;
(c) in the opinion of the Central Bank, has failed to
exercise, perform or discharge any power, duty, or
function of such liquidator or to comply with the
terms and conditions imposed on such liquidator
under this Part of this Act; or
(d) becomes ineligible to serve in that capacity in any
other manner.
(2) The court shall, upon removal of the liquidator under
the provisions of subsection (1), appoint another person
nominated by the Central Bank as the liquidator.
(3) The Central Bank shall, immediately after the
appointment of the liquidator under subsection (2), give
notice of appointment of the new liquidator to the licensed
bank, and shall publish such notice in the Gazette and at
least in three Sinhala, Tamil and English daily newspapers
circulating in Sri Lanka.
(4) The provisions of sections 69 and 70 shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to the liquidator appointed under
subsection (2).
72 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
Liquidator to 72. (1) Within a period of three months from the date of
prepare a
winding up order made under section 67, the liquidator shall
winding up plan
prepare and submit to the Central Bank for its approval, a
detailed winding up plan for the licensed bank subject to
winding up.
(2) The winding up plan referred to in subsection (1) shall
include –
(a) a current pro forma statement of financial position
showing the assets and liabilities of the licensed
bank;
(b) quarterly statements of income and expenditure of
the preceding period of two years and projected
income and expenditure for the succeeding period
of two years of the licensed bank;
(c) a progress report on the sale and plans for the sale
of major assets or groups of assets of the licensed
bank;
(d) a report on the judicial or extra-judicial pursuit of
claims of the licensed bank, including any action
to obtain an annulment or a declaration of invalidity
of fraudulent conveyances, and the transfers made
and rights created by them;
(e) a report on offences and other illegal activities of
directors or officers of the licensed bank and actions
to obtain compensation for the licensed bank from
such directors or officers;
(f) a report on the continuation or termination of
ongoing contracts, such as insurance, employment
and service contracts of the licensed bank, including
a detailed analysis of financial provisions for its
employees;
Banking (Special Provisions) 73
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(g) a report on the liabilities of the licensed bank and a
schedule of expected payments to creditors of the
licensed bank during the succeeding period of three
months; and
(h) a report on actual, past and estimated future costs
for the preceding and succeeding period of two
years, respectively, and expenses of the winding
up.
(3) The Central Bank shall, if it is satisfied with the content
of the winding up plan submitted under subsection (1),
approve such plan and inform the liquidator in writing of
such approval.
(4) The liquidator shall, after the winding up plan is
approved by the Central Bank under subsection (3), submit
such winding up plan, together with the approval given by
the Central Bank, to the court for approval.
(5) The liquidator shall, after receiving the approval of
the court for the winding up plan, publish, once a week for
three consecutive weeks, a notice at least in three Sinhala,
Tamil, and English daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka,
which shall contain information of the date when, and the
place where, the winding up plan and updates of such plan
will be available for inspection by the claimants of the
licensed bank subject to winding up who have registered
their claims under section 79.
(6) The winding up plan approved by the court shall be
updated quarterly by the liquidator.
(7) The liquidator shall maintain proper books and records
including a cost-benefit analysis of the implementation of
the winding up plan and shall submit the same for the
74 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
inspection of the Head of the Department established under
section 4 or any officer authorized in that behalf by the
Central Bank.
Prohibition in 73. (1) Where the winding up proceedings on a licensed
regard to court
bank are initiated pursuant to a winding up order, any court
proceedings
against licensed proceeding against such licensed bank shall not be
bank subject to commenced, and all court proceedings pending against such
winding up
licensed bank shall be stayed forthwith, with the leave of
the court and subject to such terms as the court may impose.
(2) In pursuance of the winding up order, any creditor
other than a secured creditor shall not have the right to
execute any of his personal right, title or interest against the
licensed bank subject to winding up or impose any other
restraints on the assets thereof.
(3) All attachments placed, and acts of execution performed
on the assets of the licensed bank subject to winding up
after the date of coming into effect of the winding up order,
shall be void, except for realization of assets encumbered by
a mortgage or lien, to the extent of the debt secured by such
assets.
(4) Any interest or other charge shall not accrue on
liabilities of a licensed bank on or after the date of coming
into effect of the winding up order.
Liquidator to 74. (1) The liquidator shall, in consultation with the
apply to court Central Bank, and after giving notice to the licensed bank
for an order to
subject to winding up, make an application to the court
nullify certain
acts requesting that any act, including but not limited to, any act
of such licensed bank that has been carried out within the
period of ninety days before the date of coming into effect
of the winding up order, be declared null and void.
Banking (Special Provisions) 75
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(2) The court may upon receipt of an application under
subsection (1), and on being heard the parties named in such
application, if satisfied, that such licensed bank and such
parties involved in such act have had the knowledge or
should have known at the time of carrying out of such act
that it is likely to damage the interests of depositors or other
creditors of such licensed bank, declare that any act,
including but not limited to, any transaction of the licensed
bank subject to winding up that has been carried out within
the period of ninety days before the date of coming into
effect of the winding up order, to be null and void.
(3) The knowledge referred to in subsection (2) shall be
presumed whenever such act consists of –
(a) a gift or other transfer to any person without
consideration;
(b) a payment of money, or transfer of assets or any
other interest of the licensed bank, a shareholder,
director, an Administrator, a key management
personnel or an employee of the licensed bank,
unless such licensed bank, shareholder, director,
Administrator, key management personnel or the
employee proves to the satisfaction of the court,
taking into account the views of the Central Bank,
that-
(i) such person engaged in the payment of
money or transfer of assets or interests ofthe
licensed bank as a bona fide counterparty;
(ii) such person had reasonable grounds to
believe that the payment of money or
transfer of assets or interests of the licensed
bank as the case may be, is genuine based
on the representations made by the licensed
bank in that respect; and
76 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(iii) such person was not aware that the payment
of money or the transfer of assets or interests
of the licensed bank would have damaged
the interests of the depositors and creditors
of such licensed bank;
(c) a payment or transfer made prior to its due date, or
the transfer of collateral for a debt prior to the date
on which such debt becomes payable;
(d) the conclusion or performance of a contract
imposing obligations on the licensed bank that are
significantly more onerous than the obligations
imposed on the other party or parties to the contract;
(e) an arrangement between the licensed bank and one
or more other persons, other than a financial
contract, permitting setting off rights and
obligations of the licensed bank, prior to the
issuance of the winding up order;
(f) an inter-bank transfer between a bank incorporated
outside Sri Lanka, which has been issued a licence
under the Banking Act and the head office of that
bank, its branches or subsidiaries which have been
established outside Sri Lanka; or
(g) a transfer between the licensed bank and its related
parties.
Termination of 75. The liquidator shall, as soon as practicable, take steps
fiduciary to –
functions
(a) cease and terminate all functions discharged by the
licensed bank in a fiduciary capacity;
Banking (Special Provisions) 77
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(b) return all funds and other property held by the
licensed bank in a fiduciary capacity, or under
bailment, or as bailor of a safe deposit box, to the
persons or their legal heirs or representatives who
are legally entitled to the ownership of such funds
or property, as the case may be; and
(c) settle the fiduciary accounts of the licensed bank.
76. (1) Within a period of six months from the date of the Termination of
winding up order, the liquidator may, with the approval of existing
contracts
the court and subject to the issuance of a ninety days’ prior
written notice, and the provisions of any other law for the
time being in force, terminate -
(a) any contract of employment entered into with the
licensed bank;
(b) any contract for services to which the licensed bank
is a party; or
(c) any obligations of the licensed bank including, but
without limiting to, its obligations, if any-
(i) under any credit facility provided by the
licensed bank;
(ii) as a lessee;
(iii) to deliver or to take delivery of securities,
payment instruments or foreign currency;
(iv) under letters of credit; or
(v) under guarantees, options and other
contingent liabilities.
78 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(2) A lessor who has received a ninety days’ prior notice
of the termination of a lease under paragraph (c) of
subsection (1), shall have no claim for rent other than the
rent accrued on the date of termination of the lease, nor for
damages by reason of such termination.
(3) Any person aggrieved by the decision of the court to
grant approval under subsection (1) may appeal to the
Supreme Court against such decision, within forty-five days
from the date of the notice issued under that subsection and
the provisions of the High Court of the Provinces (Special
Provisions) Act, No.10 of 1996 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply
to and in respect of such appeal.
Finality in 77. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
payment, contained in the provisions of this Act or any other written
clearing and
law for the time being in force-
settlement
systems
(a) any irrevocable money or securities transfer order
that has been entered by a licensed bank into a
payment or securities settlement system recognized
as such by the Central Bank shall be legally
enforceable and binding on third parties, despite
the issuing of a winding up order against the
licensed bank, provided that such transfer order has
become irrevocable before the winding up order
takes effect; or
(b) where a licensed bank enters any irrevocable money
or securities transfer order into a payment or
securities settlement system after the winding up
order issued against the licensed bank takes effect,
and such transfer order is carried out on the day of
coming into effect of the winding up order, such
transfer order shall be legally enforceable and
binding on any third party.
Banking (Special Provisions) 79
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(2) Any written law for the time being in force on the
setting aside of contracts and transactions entered into or
made before the coming into effect of the winding up order,
shall not have effect on unwinding of a netting by a payment
or settlement system recognized by the Central Bank.
(3) For the purposes of this section –
(a) a transfer order entered into a payments or securities
settlement system becomes irrevocable at the time
defined by the laws, regulations or rules applicable
to that system; and
(b) "netting" means the conversion into one net claim
or one net obligation of all claims or obligations
resulting from transfer orders, which a participant
or participants in a settlement system either issue
to, or receive from, one or more other participants
in that system with the result that only a net claim
or a net obligation remains.
78. (1) Within one month from the date of taking charge Reports to be
of the assets, books, records and other information in any submitted by
liquidator
form under subsection (3) of section 69, the liquidator shall
submit to the Central Bank an interim report containing all
assets, claims, contracts, and major transactions of the
licensed bank subject to winding up.
(2) It shall be lawful for any officer authorized by the
Central Bank to submit to the liquidator such information
on the assets and liabilities of the licensed bank subject to
winding up, available in the custody of such authoriszed
officer, which may be required to recognize assets and
liabilities of such licensed bank.
(3) Within two months from the date of the interim report
referred to in subsection (1), the liquidator shall submit to
the Central Bank a final report of –
80 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(a) all the assets of the licensed bank, including claims
of the licensed bank on account of unpaid
subscriptions of share capital of the licensed bank,
loan and guarantee agreements and agreements of
purchase or sale, together with the book values and
estimated liquidation values of such assets;
(b) major transactions entered into by the licensed bank
during the period of ninety days immediately
preceding the date of the winding up order;
(c) the contracts pursuant to which any property of the
licensed bank is or will be held by other parties,
including sales, rent, lease and such other collateral
agreements; and
(d) the contracts pursuant to which the licensed bank
receives services from third parties.
(4) Within fourteen days from the submission of the final
report under subsection (3), the Central Bank may grant
approval to, or further develop the same, in consultation
with the liquidator.
(5) The liquidator shall tender to the court a certified copy
of the final report approved by the Central bank under
subsection (4).
(6) The liquidator shall update the report tendered to the
court under subsection (5) periodically as may be required
by the Central Bank and submit the same to the Central
Bank. The provisions of subsections (4) and (5) shall mutatis
mutandis apply to such updated report.
Registration of 79. (1) Any claim on a licensed Bank subject to winding
claims up shall be made to the liquidator in writing, within four
months from the date of winding up order.
Banking (Special Provisions) 81
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(2) Any claim under subsection (1) shall accompany the
documentary evidence in relation to such claim, including
the following information at a minimum: -
(a) the name and address of the creditor;
(b) nature of the claim, including the amounts of
interest and other charges, penalties and taxes
included in the principal amount of the claim; and
(c) details concerning any mortgage, lien or guarantee
securing the claim, including the name and address
of any guarantor.
(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (5) of section
80, the liquidator shall register each such claim made to him
under subsection (1) and issue a receipt in such form as may
be specified by the Central Bank in proof of such registration.
(4) The receipt referred to in subsection (3), shall be prima
facie evidence of the registration of a claim.
(5) Anything contained in this section shall not apply to
any claim submitted by a depositor in respect of a deposit
recorded in the books or records of a licensed bank subject
to winding up, and such claim shall be admitted for the
amount so recorded, for the purpose of giving effect to the
winding up order.
80. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (4) and Admission or
rejection of
(5), only the claims that are registered with the liquidator
claims
shall be considered by the liquidator for the purpose of giving
effect to winding up proceedings of a licensed bank, without
further evidence to that effect.
82 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(2) Any creditor of the licensed bank whose claim is
secured by a mortgage or lien, may register such claim for an
amount exceeding the expected value of the underlying asset
which may be sold at a public auction or the market value as
may be determined by an independent professional valuer
possessing such qualifications and experience referred to in
subsection (1) of section 16.
(3) Any claim registered under the provisions of subsection
(2), shall only be admitted by the liquidator after the public
auction has taken place.
(4) Any claim of which the value is uncertain, may be
admitted by the liquidator for a value as determined by the
liquidator in consultation with an independent professional
valuer possessing such qualifications and experience referred
to in subsection (1) of section 16.
(5) The liquidator shall, after examining each claim
registered under subsection (3) of section 79, classify such
claims as-
(a) claims admitted by the liquidator; and
(b) claims rejected by the liquidator.
(6) The liquidator shall, for the purpose of recording the
claims classified under subsection (5), maintain two separate
lists. In the case of claims classified as claims rejected under
paragraph (b) of subsection (5), the liquidator shall record in
such list the reasons for classifying such claims as rejected
claims.
(7) In both of the lists referred to in subsection (6)-
(a) the name and address, the amount of the claim, and
whether the claim is secured by collateral shall be
specified in respect of each claimant; and
Banking (Special Provisions) 83
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(b) claims of equal ranking shall be listed together, in
the order of their priority of payment.
(8) Both of the lists referred to in subsection (6) shall be
completed and submitted to the court, within a period of
thirty working days from the deadline specified for the
registration of claims.
(9) The liquidator shall, after submitting the first set of
lists as referred to in subsection (6), update such reports
periodically and submit the updated lists to the court at
such times as may be specified by the court.
(10) The liquidator shall notify every claimant whose
claim has been classified as rejected under subsection (5)
the fact of such rejection in writing, within a period of one
month from the date of issuance of the receipt under
subsection (3) of section 79.
81. (1) Any claimant who is aggrieved by the rejection of Appeals against
rejected claims
a claim under the provisions of section 80 may, within a
period of one month from the date of receipt of the
notification under subsection (10) of section 80, apply to
the court for an order for the admission of such claim.
(2) The court may, after considering the application made
under subsection (1), make order admitting or rejecting such
claim.
(3) Any claim admitted by the court under subsection (2),
shall be removed from the list of rejected claims referred to
in subsection (6) of section 80, and be recorded in a separate
list of admitted claims to be maintained jointly by the court
and the liquidator.
84 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(4) Any payment shall not be made by the liquidator on
account of claims that are rejected by the court.
(5) Any claimant whose claim has been rejected by the
court, may appeal to the Supreme Court against such decision
within forty-five days from the date of such decision and the
provisions of the High Court of the Provinces (Special
Provisions) Act, No.10 of 1996 relating to appeals shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply to and in respect of such appeal.
Disposal of 82. Subject to the provisions of section 84, the liquidator
assets, liabilities, may, with the concurrence of the Central Bank and with the
or shares, &c in
approval of the court, dispose of all or part of any assets,
a winding up
liabilities, legal rights and obligations or any property of
the licensed bank after the commencement of winding up
under this Part of this Act.
Setting off and 83. (1) Anything contained in the provisions of this Act
netting and any decision taken thereunder shall not prevent or
prohibit the setting off, by operation of the law, of obligations
between a licensed bank subject to winding up and its
contractual counterparties.
(2) In determining the rights and obligations between a
licensed bank subject to winding up and its contractual
counterparties, close-out netting and set off provisions
contained in financial contracts between such licensed bank
and the respective contractual counterparties shall be taken
into consideration.
(3) The net termination value determined in accordance
with a financial contract between the licensed bank subject
to winding up and the respective contractual counterparty,
shall be a claim of such licensed bank on the counterparty,
or shall be admitted after its registration as a claim of the
counterparty on the licensed bank under the provisions of
section 79.
Banking (Special Provisions) 85
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(4) For the purposes of this section, "net termination value"
means the net amount obtained after setting off the mutual
obligations between the parties to a financial contract in
accordance with the terms and conditions thereof.
(5) The Central Bank shall specify the matters pertaining
to setting off and netting including financial contracts, by
issuing directions, from time to time.
84. (1) All assets of a licensed bank subject to winding Sale of assets in
up, other than assets securing approved claims of secured winding up
creditors against such licensed bank, and all assets securing
claims of such licensed bank shall be sold by the liquidator
in a commercially reasonable manner.
(2) The assets including collaterals, shall be deemed to
have been sold in a commercially reasonable manner as
referred to in subsection (1), when such assets are disposed
of as follows: -
(a) when securities, foreign currencies and other assets
that can be readily sold are sold at market price in
the markets where they are traded; and
(b) when such assets are sold at public auction:
Provided however, if the liquidator determines
that a reasonable price cannot be obtained for the
assets in a public auction, the liquidator shall seek
the approval of the court to sell the assets privately.
(3) The assets of a licensed bank subject to winding up
other than the assets referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection
(2), shall be placed at the disposal of the liquidator, promptly
upon a request of the liquidator.
86 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(4) Any dispute between the liquidator and a secured
creditor as to the value of an asset securing a claim shall be
resolved by the Central Bank, unless the asset is sold at
market value as may be determined by an independent
professional valuer possessing such qualifications and
experience referred to in subsection (1) of section 16, or at
public auction, as the case may be, in which event the sale
price at market value or at public auction shall be conclusive
as to the value of the asset.
Priority of 85. (1) The liquidator shall distribute the assets of a
claims for the
licensed bank subject to winding up in accordance with the
distribution of
assets in winding priority of claims specified in subsection (2).
up
(2) The assets of a licensed bank subject to winding up
shall be distributed in the following order of priority: -
(a) all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the
liquidator on account of the administration of the
insolvency;
(b) unpaid premium due to the Deposit Insurance Fund;
(c) insured deposits and claims of the Deposit Insurance
Fund arising from subrogation of the rights of
insured depositors under section 45 as a result of
compensation or resolution financing provided
under subsection (3) of section 51;
(d) deposits over the insured limit determined by the
Central Bank under section 44;
(e) salaries and wages of officers and other employees
of the licensed bank, as accrued to the date of the
winding up order made under subsection (6) of
section 67;
Banking (Special Provisions) 87
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(f) sums owed to the Government for the financing of
resolution under this Act;
(g) taxes, rates, and deposits owed to the Government
and local authorities by the licensed bank which
were due over a period of not more than one year
preceding the date of the winding up order made
under subsection (6) of section 67;
(h) industrial court awards and any other statutory dues
payable to, or on account of, any officer or other
employee of the licensed bank;
(i) liabilities of the licensed bank on account of
resolution and any other liabilities due and owing
to the Central Bank and the Deposit Insurance Fund;
(j) claims of unsecured creditors other than depositors;
(k) any other claim not paid under paragraphs (a) to (j)
of this subsection.
86. (1) The payment of claims to depositors or other Distribution
creditors of a licensed bank subject to winding up, shall be schedule of
payments in
made only for amounts listed in a distribution schedule
winding up
approved by the Central Bank.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the liquidator shall
prepare a distribution schedule of payments to be made to
depositors and other creditors of the licensed bank subject
to winding up, consisting of claims admitted under sections
80 and 81, and submit the same for approval of the Central
Bank.
(3) Each distribution schedule of payments shall rank
and combine the payments to be made on approved claims
according to their priority of payment as specified in the
provisions of section 85, only if-
88 Banking (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 17 of 2023
(a) all payments due on approved claims of a higher
priority ranking than the claims to be included,
have been made in full under an earlier distribution
schedule of payments, or can be made in full under
this distribution schedule of payments; and
(b) sufficient funds have been reserved to pay in full of
all claims that have a higher priority ranking than
the claims to be included and that are not yet
approved and to ensure equal treatment of the claims
that have a priority ranking equal to the ranking of
the claims to be included and that are not yet
approved.
(4) If the funds available are insufficient to settle all claims
of a certain priority ranking in full, the funds shall be
distributed prorata among payments on those claims, and
any funds shall not be allocated to payments on claims of a
lower priority ranking unless such payment can be made in
full on the first mentioned claims.
(5) Immediately after the approval by the Central Bank,
of a distribution schedule of payments submitted under
subsection (2), the liquidator shall publish once a week for
three consecutive weeks, a notice, at least in three Sinhala,
Tamil, and English daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka,
containing information of the date when, and place where,
the persons entitled to approved claims can receive the
payments, or any such other manner in which the entitled
persons can receive the payments listed in that distribution
schedule.
(6) Any amount included in the distribution schedule
which is not paid owing to the inability to identify or contact
the relevant depositors and creditors shall be deposited in a
special account maintained for that purpose in the Central
Bank.
